I think that you can interpret the
evidence that there is a strong case for
the existence of Atlantis. And one of
the things I've done is studied the
marine geology and oceanography of the
Atlantic Ocean basin. And there is
overwhelming evidence of major
subsidance on the floor of the Atlantic
Ocean, particularly concentrated along
the Mid-Atlantic ridge. What we're
seeing now, those islands are the tops
of mountains.
We're [music] crazy speculative
territory here. What's up with the moon?
It's really strange.
The moon has sufficient mass that it
should have deformed into the state of
least energy, which is a sphere. Why
hasn't it done that?
What do you think?
I am willing to consider that the moon
has been geoengineered. [music]
And how would it have been geoengineered
by a civilization with a technology
advanced enough?
Do you think Atlant's geoengineered it?
Look, the Imperial Mammoth stood 16 ft
tall at the shoulder. The Ursus Spalius,
the bear that stood 6 feet tall at the
shoulder and 12 feet tall when it stood
up on its hind legs. There were giants.
But if you had all of these mamalian
megapa, oversized compared to today, why
not people?
This week's American Alchemist is the
always fascinating and extremely
knowledgeable Randall Carlson. Randall
and I have been friends since 2018. I
annoy him constantly with random phone
calls on everything related to
esoterica, ancient civilizations, and
geology. This interview spans two
conversations, one in 2022 and one in
2024. [music]
In private, Randall and I have had some
pretty trippy conversations about the
ancient site of Atlantis, a cataclysm
that might have disrupted life there,
[music] and then where those survivors
went. Randall has speculated with me
given certain anomalies with [music] the
moon that maybe some of these survivors
have camped out on the moon. I think
about that with respect to the UFO topic
where [music] there's constant lore
around underwater bases and there are a
lot of real anomalies with our moon. And
so I decided to grill Randall [music]
Carlson on this thread. So my disclaimer
here is that this conversation is going
to be stepwise more speculative than any
conversation you've [music] heard
Randall have. And I have no idea if
there's veracity to any of this, but
it's extremely fun to speculate and it's
also important. [music] It drives
science. I also think if you look at a
lot of Randall's earlier work around the
younger [music] dus impact hypothesis,
it would have been considered extremely
speculative [music] in the '90s, but now
we have an abundance of evidence that
he's probably just right. So, in the
name of possibly pushing things forward,
I decided to get crazy [music] with him.
And let's see if any of it holds up. I
now present to you the gay bearded
wizard of Georgia, [music] Graham
Hancock's work husband, and my good
friend, this week's American Alchemist,
Randall Carlson. Randall, thank you for
having me, man.
Oh, thanks for having me.
You made a little feature on the show
with Graham. I don't know if you saw
that. You you called in and so it's good
to actually be here in the flesh with
you.
Yeah, here we are. Well, we've talked
about this for a year or two or three.
Yeah. you know, since we met, which was
it's got to be at least a couple years
now.
I want to say it was three years ago.
I think it's still pushing three years.
I tried to get you to move to LA and
become my mentor. Uh but
I was sorely tempted. Um
but um yeah, when push came to shove, I
couldn't pull it [laughter] off.
You got busy. You did. I remember at the
time you were like, "You know what? I've
been I've been thinking I need somebody
to you know uh uh transmit my teachings
[clears throat] to and I've always
remembered that because I've you know uh
called you uh randomly from time to you
probably know me as a guy that call you
you know sporadically.
Yeah. Right. Right. I sometimes my phone
ring I'll
Oh god it's Jesse Michaels [laughter]
again.
Hey Jesse.
No I'm always happy to get a call from
you Jesse.
Thanks man. So far,
I love I love our conversations. We We
talk about some trippy out there stuff.
Speaking of which,
I've been on a weird uh kind of rabbit
hole
and I've been thinking about the moon
and I think uh the moon doesn't make a
lot of sense to me.
I would agree.
Okay,
I would totally agree that it doesn't
make a lot of sense.
Yeah. What's up with the moon? It is way
less dense than the Earth. The material
predates the Earth and yet it's supposed
to have come from the Earth itself from
some sort of asteroid impact. So that
doesn't make sense. There were
reverberations when the lunar lander
hit it both in Apollo 12 and and in
Apollo 13 you had ringing
and when meteoroids strike it, same
thing. While those those Apollo imp
place seismometers were on the moon.
Yes. I think for three or four years
NASA was able to gather data and yes it
shows that the moon has a long uh
vibrational train after like 10 times or
more that of say the earth.
You have uranium [clears throat] 236 and
and uh chromium and and chromium and
titanium titanium on the moon. These are
sort of rather rare
high refrractory metals. [snorts]
It's very strange. And then it feels
almost like you know this perfect ball
and it rotate. It orbits in this perfect
way where you never see the dark side of
the moon.
If you ask people
Mhm.
and I do this just for I'll say to
people, does the moon rotate on its
axis?
Mhm.
And most people go and they can't
conceptualize in any way that allows
them to even answer the question.
Does it? Well,
yes. Okay, it does. Okay. Or no? Well,
let's say because most people now,
unlike our ancestors of long ago, don't
pay much attention to the moon. Our
ancestors all over the ancient world
paid obsessive attention to the moon.
They built huge structures and monuments
dedicated to observing the motions of
the moon. Uh, and they did this all over
the world. Why? Why were they so
interested in the moon? Why were they so
intrigued with the moon? Um that they
would create these large astronomy
observatories that would allow them to
track, for example, the 18.6 year lunar
cycle between
maximum rising and setting, minimum
rising and setting, which takes a full
it takes 18.6 years to go through the
full cycle. And to put it into a a a
very what I would think of as kind of a
a a comprehensible motion is you've got
a minimum rising, a minimum setting, a
maximum rising, a maximum setting, and
it goes like this.
Does that make sense what I'm doing?
Mhm.
It goes maximum
Uh like maximum rise,
minimum set,
maximum set, minimum rise, and it
oscillates like that back and forth. It
takes 18.6 years.
Give or take a few days to complete that
full cycle. There's a place that we'll
go to at some point [clears throat] in
Colorado called Chimney Rock.
We can pull up a slide of it a little
bit later if you'd like. It's a It's two
natural pillars, huge pillars are
thousand ft above the valley floor and
they're connected by a ridge and you can
go up that ridge and where the ridge
sort of flattens out before you get to
these two huge pinnacles of rock.
There's a the remnants of an ancient
structure there in an ancient Ka that
would have been built by the Chakan
people.
And this was one of the Chakan outliers
part of the whole Chakun civilization
that was pretty much covered the 10,000
square miles of the San Juan Basin in
New Mexico whose hub was Choco Canyon.
And there was a whole series of outliers
that were uh places of uh observation
um high pinnacle points that would have
been um probably used as as a
communication system. We can pull some
of this up and I can show you some of
these slides. You'll kind of see how it
worked. But at Chimney Rock, the ra
remains of a kar there. And if you
position yourself at the at the right
location within that ka which is
circular, you peer through those through
those two pinnacle rocks and it marks
that position
where you will see every 18.6 years you
will see the moon rising in between
those two rocks.
And that's coming up later this year.
So, I'm thinking uh a little trip out
there and the park, it's a national
monument, I believe.
The park service that governs it is
going to open it up so people can
actually hike up the ridge and get in
that position and see the event.
Let's go.
I think it's
I think
But I I won't let you go, Randall.
What's up with the moon? It's really
strange. it it uh you know also the uh
more dense uh material on the moon is
above the less dense material which is
the opposite of the earth and it's
similar to like a digging or excavation
site.
Well, here's
and so like actually the thing that got
me onto this is there's a a remote
viewer named Ingo Swan. Yes, I've heard
of him.
And he wrote a book called Penetration.
And uh he was part of the CIA psychic
spy program called Stargate.
And the latter half of the book,
Penetration, is dedicated to his
thoughts on the moon.
Okay?
And he thought that the moon was a
hollow spaceship.
And there are other legends that involve
the moon being a hollow artificial
satellite or spaceship around the Earth.
And there's actually a Zulu legend that
the moon brought us out of the younger
dus and that it it it it made the the
climate stable on Earth. So what's
Well, the moon absolutely does help to
stabilize the climate.
That's that's a well-known fact. In
fact, I have a whole book up there on
that.
And you've uh seen evidence of various
gaseous activity on the moon that's sort
of unexplainable.
Oh, yeah. the uh lunar transient
phenomena is welled hundreds of examples
of the moon outgassing carbon dioxide,
outgassing water vapor, things like
that. So anomalous lights, things really
looks like there's some kind of activity
on the moon right now. I don't know. I
don't know the explanation for it. I
don't know why carbon dioxide is being
outgassed from the moon, but carbon
dioxide seems to suggest well carbon
dioxide you associate with plants, with
vegetation, water vapor.
Well, you know, coming out of the moon,
the moon's super weird. So Apollo 10,
right, uh it took off from the moon and
it rang like a bell and NASA became very
confused. Then in Apollo 11, they put
seismometers in the moon to measure this
effect. They intentionally crashed the
booster, the first stage of uh the lunar
module in Apollo 11 back onto the moon
and it rings like a bell for three
hours. So they're like, "What the hell's
going on here?" And it turns out that if
you excavate, you know, if you dig on
the moon,
uh lower sediment layers on the moon
actually are newer than higher sediment
layers. So it's the exact inverse and it
actually pattern matches to an
excavation site. So, you think that
there might be a a little camp out from
this past civilization on the moon?
But in in the spirit of the outrageous
hypothesis, let's consider it.
Okay, I like that. And so, why haven't
we gone back? You know, 1969 to 1972, we
went on all these cool missions. You had
the uh NASA Saturn program, uh the
Apollo programs, and uh we don't seem to
be able to go back. You even have NASA
admins saying we lost the technology.
Like that's that's not even like a
controversial conspiratorial thing to
say. The more conspiratorial thing would
be that was a hoax or whatever.
You know, one the more prosaic
explanation is that Nixon decided to
pull the plug on the Apollo program
because the Vietnam War was costing us
so much money and we were going into
debt that he didn't feel like we had
enough, you know, money to to continue
the program. So they decommissioned the
whole Saturn rocket fleet,
which was really dumb and stupid, but
that's what they did. And so, you know,
you could make the argument, well, the
Vietnam War won out over the Apollo
program. There was probably more to it
than that, but
I don't know what that would be unless
something was found that, you know,
what might have been found,
I don't know. And there there are
civilizations pre-moon that talk about
they talk about you know the moon not
existing and then there you know
Sumerians talk about the premoon
civilizations and so what's up
that I don't think that means what
people think it means because here's why
I think that it means something very
interesting but obviously if you had the
moon arriving into earth orbit
during the time that humans would be
here the arrival of the moon into
earth's orbit
would be an extraordinary event and it
would be profoundly catastrophic.
So, how do you think the moon formed?
Oh, well, uh, that's part of the
mystery. Um,
come on, Randall.
Well, see, I I don't necessarily have
all the answers on that, but I will say
something. [laughter]
As far as the moon, the the the
structure of the moon,
you're right that the moon is much less
is slightly more than half as dense as
the Earth. Mhm.
So [clears throat] the the interesting
thing about the moon is if you get
enough mass together
Mhm.
the gravitational attraction will
overcome the resistance
to deformation of the material. What
that means is that if you have a small
object like a like say for example an
astronomical object like Phobos or Deeos
the the moons of Mars
they're not spherical.
There's not enough mass there to
overcome
uh the the the the rigidity of the
material.
Hey, American Alchemy fans. After years
of trying pretty much every shaving
product under the sun, I finally found
something that I love. It's called House
of Atlas. House of Atlas's razor kit has
raised my grooming game in the biggest
way. The razor that leaves you with the
smoothest shave you'll ever get. They
have precision shave cream, calming
after shave. Seriously, I don't know
what they're doing with this blade, but
it leaves my skin feeling silky smooth.
With its five US-made stainless steel
blades and that high performance serum
strip, it glides through my facial hair
for an incredibly close, comfortable
shave. They also have one of the most
luxurious feeling and precision guiding
shave creams and a very calming
aftershave. Their shave cream has a
thick, rich, special formula that gives
me a clear guide for an even shave. And
the after shave leaves my skin feeling
cool and refreshed without any of that
old school sting that you might get from
other products. Plus, and this might be
the coolest thing of all, the kit comes
with an epic magnetic storage hook. And
now for a limited time, they're offering
15% off your first order when you
purchase any razor kit in the before and
after set. This includes the precision
shave cream and calming after shave. Use
code Jesse Jes
at houseofatlas.com.
That's hu.com
with promo code Jesse Jes s for 15% off
your new razor kit and before and after
set. So stop wasting money and time on
shaving products that don't look good,
aren't effective, and cost way too much.
Visit houseofatlas.com
today. Trust me, you'll love it as much
as I did.
There's not enough mass there that the
gravity attraction, the internal gravity
can overcome the resistance of the
material and cause it to deform
somewhere between say the moons of Mars
and the moons of the earth, you will get
enough mass where it does um overtake
that the gravity will overwhelm the
rigidity of the material. it will deform
into the shape which requires the least
energy to maintain which is a sphere.
The mass of the moon is sufficient to do
that. Yet, it hasn't done that. How do
we know that? Well, there's a number of
ways we know that. The most prominent
way we know that is the fact that there
is two moments of inertia in the moon.
Um, let's see. Grab like one of those
wooden compasses off the top right
there, I think. Yeah, one of those.
Let's see. Will that work? Is there
another? Let's see. Is there should be
Is there anything else up there? Tubular
pen.
That'll work. That'll work. Okay. So,
now I'm going to hold this pen as if
it's locked into a single moment of
inertia that coincides with its center
of mass.
Okay. Now, what I want you to do is try
to grab each end of the pen and try to
rotate it.
No, rotate it horizontal plate. See, I
Mhm.
You're You're going to easily overcome
my resistance. I'm going to I'm going to
resist and you see I can't. Okay.
Now,
rotate it in the same plane.
Mhm.
One moment of inertia.
Two moments of inertia.
Mhm.
Okay. when I what you are okay so here's
here is a spherically radially
symmetrical object
let's imagine it is a sphere and this is
an axis
and you are earth's gravity field
so again
rotated
very little resistance right
but now you're earth's gravity field and
there's two moments of inertia
so what's happened there is the moon is
locked into
Earth's gravity field in a one:one
coupling between the spin of the moon on
its axis and its revolution about the
earth. One spin orbit coupling.
The moon has sufficient mass and low
density that it should have
deformed into the state of least energy
which is a sphere. Why hasn't it done
that, Randall?
Why hasn't it done that?
What do you think?
Because there's obviously two moments of
inertia.
So why and how do you explain the two
moments of inertia if it's a natural
object?
Well, we have to come up with a I mean,
I'm not saying it's not a natural
object. What I'm saying though is that
the laws of physics as we know it don't
seem to be applying here. And if there's
a natural explanation, I don't know what
it is. Do you have any unnatural
theories?
Not really. I'm not ready to go into
some of the, you know, that the moon is
an artificial object.
Okay.
I am willing to consider that the moon
has been geoengineered.
Okay. And how would it have been
geoengineered?
Well, by a civilization with a
technology advanced enough that they
would be able to
Do you think Atlant's geoengineered it?
Well, now you're
uh it's very speculative. But now we get
into the question of could there have
been a a civilization in the remote past
that had technologies that we currently
don't know about. And I think the answer
is yes. That is a plausible hypothesis
that is not um is not warranted by just
summarily dismissing.
How would they have geoengineered the
moon?
Um,
well, if you look at the schemes for
[clears throat] building lunar bases,
have you ever looked at any of NASA's
ideas for building lunar bases?
No.
Um, I should pull up something here. Uh,
if I've got it handy, I will pull it up.
Um,
basically the main problem with building
a colony on the moon or a u
kind of a a facility [clears throat] on
the moon is cosmic radiation.
Right?
So how do you solve the problem of
cosmic radiation that to which you are
going to be subject on the surface of
the moon?
You need some protective shielding maybe
a magnetic protective shielding. Good.
You which means you're thinking
immediately something like there one of
the schemes is and if I can find it here
I'll pull it up. One of the schemes is a
a dome like structure.
Yeah, something like that.
Yes, you could do that. Or
what would be another possibility?
Go underground.
Oh, under. So there you go. So it could
be this hollow structure. Interesting.
Hollow is an oversimplification.
Okay.
So there maybe hollow parts of it.
Now I think you're getting on to the
Well, there's some people who are high
up at NASA who have said there are
hollow as there are hollow parts of the
moon and that that's the only
explanation for it.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean this has actually
been known since the Apollo days
has been speculated. It was uh Gordon
McDonald I think was his name.
That's right. Gordon McDonald.
Yeah.
He was the one who first said that it's
more like a hollow sphere.
That's right. And there's a famous uh
space adviser, I think he was NASA
affiliated uh to Eisenhower named Gordon
McDonald who said the only way that I've
read his work,
the only way that the moon makes any
sense is if it's hollow.
But that's an oversimplified
model.
Like a simple like if you picture a a a
basketball that has an outer shell but
completely empty.
It has maybe compartments or something.
Do you think they're Atlantean survivors
uh within the moon?
[snorts]
He says with a guran a a sly guran.
You already said yes on my show and
800,000 people watched that.
Did I say that?
You said you go there's a loaded
question, Jesse. And then you go, well,
yes.
Do you believe that there are survivors
of ancient Atlantis that are among us
perhaps with underwater bases or bases
on the moon and advanced technology?
Ah, now there's the loaded question,
Jesse. I will just say very provisional.
Yes.
Um,
well, let's put it this way. If there
were ancient cultures, whether it was
Atlantis or not, that's a whole like a
separate question. I think that
questioning the existence of Atlantis is
definitely valid. Mhm.
If we go through and we take line by
line our primary source for information
on Atlantis, which is Plato's two
dialogues, and we actually break it down
line by line, [clears throat] we look at
the multiple translations, we look at um
even going back to the original Greek to
determine
some of the the the the possible
alternative translations of some of the
words. So, I think we can do that, but
that's a conversation you've had with
other people. And I feel like you have
sort of
evidence that is, you know,
[clears throat]
in the form of uh these sort of
archaeological ruins that will always be
hotly contested and are and are sort of
hard to prove that that was Atlantis
because the actual survivors have been
washed away. And then you have all these
crazy UFO reports. And if there are any
survivors that are on the moon or in
underwater bases or anything like that,
I almost feel like, especially given the
current zeitgeist, that might be a more
um productive inroad into the Atlantis
conversation.
You know, I like to think outrageously
sometimes in the in the spirit of
outrageous hypotheses.
Um, you know, William R. Davis who was
the founding father of the science of
geomorphology excori back in the 20s I
believe it was excoriated his colleagues
for being
overly conservative in their thinking
and not willing to consider new ideas
and he wrote a very famous paper called
which you might want to read you could I
bet you you could find it as a PDF form
on Google it's called the value of
outrageous hypothesis
love that Yeah. So, in the spirit of
outrageous hypothesis,
why don't we conjecture
that given the the at least 150 to
200,000 years that we modern humans have
been on this earth that consistent with
a lot of the myths um flight was not
discovered back in the you know by the
Wright brothers but was rediscovered by
you Here here's the the perspective that
I kind of consider if we look at you
know the dominance of just feudalism of
subsistence farming you know uh that was
up until the 17 1800s and the scientific
enlightenment followed by the industrial
revolution. Uh that was pretty much 90
9% of the earth's population.
When my grandparents were born in the
1890s, the primary mode of
transportation aside from aside from
rail rail was foot, horse, mule,
you know, ships of course, but obviously
nobody had uh well, the first
automobiles I guess were just showing up
in the mid1 1890s,
but then [clears throat] when I was born
there was no computers. We had no
presence in space. If you look at how
far and fast we've come scientifically
in the last 200 years. And then if you
were to think that, well, what if a
cataclysm wiped out our modern
civilization and we had archaeologists
coming and digging up looking for, you
know, prehistory 10,000 years prior.
Well, would they find any evidence that
we were we were even here? And the
answer is well it depends on the
severity and the intensity and magnitude
of these events. Now if we start talking
about the younger dus I think we can
safely state that the younger dus was a
global catastrophe and it involved
multiple factors all of which would have
done their part very effectively to
erase
any kind of civilization that might have
existed at least anything that might
have looked like ours. If, let's put it
this way, if the younger dus events were
to be repeated now,
well, 10,000 years from now,
um, archaeologists would have a hard
time finding any evidence that we were
ever even here. So, what I'm getting at
is that I think that you can interpret
the evidence that there is a strong case
for the existence of Atlantis. Now, if
we look at what happened with Ancient
Apocalypse, Graham Hancock show, it got
attacked on multiple fronts. It's all
the establishment coming out. And of
course, [clears throat] if you dissect
their attacks on the show, there's no
substance to them.
It's just name calling. It's every
logical fallacy in the book, right?
But if you go back to the original
accounts, there's nothing there that's
really so implausible
that it couldn't have existed in some
form or another.
Well, the objections people have are it
[snorts] was told that sort of a mythos
festival, right, in the Tus and
[clears throat] Creteus account. And so,
you know, there's there was a question
of like how how true the actual telling
was. And then the other the other sort
of argument is they were supposed to
have fought a war I think against Athens
and Athens wasn't around you know sort
of thousand years prior.
You've got a whole bunch of assumptions.
Yeah.
If you go back if you go back to you
know the the the late ice age times you
know you go back to the times that Plato
is talking about
and his date is is very interesting. you
know, 9,000 years before Solon's
uh exile to Egypt, right? Which occurred
in 600 BC.
So, the 9,600 BC, which is the end of
the Younger Dryus,
right? Precisely the end of the Younger
Dryus and Meltwater Pulse 1B.
This show is sponsored by BetterHelp. If
you are going through something,
anything, I always think talking about
it helps. I've also always believed that
taking care of your mental well-being is
as essential as staying physically fit,
especially when life keeps you on the
go. For me, it's interviews, projects,
and travel. Sometimes you just need to
blow off some steam. I've seen firsthand
how a solid support system can transform
your dayto-day. Traditional therapy
costs anywhere from $100 to $250 per
session. It often takes a lot of time to
book the sessions. It's hard to know
who's a quality therapist. BetterHelp
makes weekly therapy perfectly
accessible with a flat weekly fee that
saves you a lot of time and money. You
get instantly matched up with an amazing
therapist and you can vet them based on
their track record. What I really
appreciate is how easy it is to connect
with one of BetterHelp's over 30,000
licensed therapists. No waiting rooms,
no rigid scheduling, just guidance and
support delivered online. Whether you're
tackling everyday stress, managing
anxiety, or simply looking to build
better coping skills, don't let these
things fester or build up, BetterHelp
provides a straightforward, affordable
way to get the care you deserve. Your
well-being is worth it. It's the most
important thing in your life, even more
important than aliens. So, visit
betterhelp.com/alchemy
pod today to get 10% off your first
month. That's betterh elp.comalchemy
pod. Alc.
After you sign up, they'll ask you where
you heard about them. Please support our
show and tell them we sent you. That
would go a long way.
Now, to [clears throat] me, that is
quite an amazing coincidence that you
have a very rapid pulse of sea level
rise. At the same time, Plato is saying
that there were islands in the Atlantic
that sank due to seismic events.
And one of the things I've done is gone
in and studied the marine geology and
oceanography of the Atlantic Ocean
basin. And
it's right there. There is overwhelming
evidence of major subsidance on the
floor the Atlant the floor of the
Atlantic Ocean, particularly
concentrated along the mid-Atlantic
ridge.
You don't happen to have any slides
around this, do you, Randall?
Well, I do.
Really?
I actually do. Yeah.
Should we get into it? Uh, I'd love to,
you know, um,
while while you're pulling that up,
Randall, do you think that there's any
sort of sacred geometry about the human
body that allows it to
Oh, yeah.
tap in to what is what is that?
Well, it's primarily the the golden
section, also known as the divine
proportion.
Uhhuh. where also known as the uh
extreme and mean ratio
which um is basically well this right
here actually is a compass that
demonstrates that ratio where the ratio
of the small segment to the large
segment is exactly the same as the ratio
of the large segment to the hole.
You know what else displays that? The
moon.
How so? I believe
that the moon is 1/400th
the size of the sun or something or or
what what you tell me. What is it? It's
[clears throat] the the distance between
the
you have a proportional relationship
between diameters and distance.
Yes.
The sun is 400 times larger than the
moon and 400 times farther away.
Okay. So, what's up with that?
There we go. I mean, what is up with
that?
I don't know.
I've been thinking about that for
decades.
That's what you're here to tell me.
What is up with that?
That's weird.
How is it that Well, see what's up. See,
here we get into the fact that that's
just one interesting item in a whole
array of weird coincidences about this
reality that we inhabit. M
when we look at the whole solar system,
the whole solar system
looks curiously like a work of
architecture
like when you begin looking at the
ratios of planetary sizes, masses,
distances,
[snorts]
there's some really interesting things
going on which if you change the
parameters
even a little bit. For example, the the
masses and distance spacing of the four
larger outer planets are precisely what
they need to be to transfer comets from
the inner zone of the Kyper disc into
uh a uh the inner solar system. M
if you were to change the spacing or the
masses, this whole phenomena of
capturing cometier comets out of the
Kyper disc, transferring them into the
inner solar system would cease.
Why would it uh you know comet air burst
from the torren meteor streamlate?
Well, it wouldn't it would not on the
earth. But if you have a major influx of
a cometary mass into the inner solar
system and and so here going back to the
torid meteor stream here is right now
the idea that's coming from the new
catastrophists that actually go back to
1980 in the British Isles Victor Clue
William Napier uh William Asher several
others uh also some Australian
astronomers that theorized that around
25 to 30,000 years ago
a gigantic comet maybe 50 to 60 mi
diameter nucleus or even bigger came it
was captured into a a sub jovian orbit
meaning that it's traveling around in
the inner solar system between the sun
and Jupiter that this huge comet began
to undergo a a system of of hierarchical
system of breakups forming ever smaller
um cometary nuclei pieces that then went
under again another um process of
breaking up which ultimately led to the
torid meteor stream. Now in the early
days of of a cometary destruction like
that,
this was the comet Anky.
Comet Anky. Now that's good. That's
good. Not comet Anki wouldn't have been
the progenitor comet. It would have been
one of the secondary or tertiary comets
from the breakup of the original. Got
it.
Does that make sense? Yes. So in early
times going back 10 12 15,000 years ago
20,000 years ago this debris has not
cleared out. It's it's very dense within
the stream of the torid meteor stream.
The earth crosses that stream twice each
year crosses. So picture this Jupiter
the sun the stream comes around the sun.
It makes its perihelion passage around
the sun, goes out, goes it it loops back
in just inside Jupiter like this. And so
it's streaming around like this and it
lays close to the plane of the ecliptic
and Earth passes through that stream
twice each year in its orbit. When that
stuff is coming from its perihelion
passage behind the sun, the earth that's
the summertime torids which occur in
late June and early July. Now the earth
is moving and then it comes to the
falltime torids that are coming in
towards the sun but coming from
apparently space. Now, all meteor
streams are named after the
constellation
that you would look at to see which
direction you're emanating from. The
torids obviously are named after the
constellation Taurus and specifically
they're almost t the radiant point is
almost targeted right on the pleades
which is the shoulder of the bull in the
classical depictions. So, in the fall
time, oh I forgot to mention that.
Today, we are right now, today,
tomorrow, and the next day in the peak
of the Torid meteor streak.
That's kind of scary.
Well, at this point, the most of this
stuff has been is it's very diffused.
It's not
However,
but you were answering the question as
to why the sun would be involved.
Here's what I'm getting at. Okay. What
we now have is evidence
that the infall of meteorites into the
sun can trigger solar outbursts.
So coronal mass ejections because it's
intaking mass. Well, that's amazing.
Okay. So interesting. So that's sort of
this hybrid. It's almost like this torid
meteor stream sets off a chain of other
calamities because you're talking about
seismic activity, volcanic activity, sun
activity.
Yes. I think that's the that that's the
way you have to look at it. We're
looking at a coherent system. What I
think is we're we're getting to the
point where we can now understand kind
of almost a unified process where
the the motion of the planets, the sun,
the in the ingress of cosmic material
coming from the kyper disc or the ort
cloud.
Yeah.
Can have profound effects on the planets
and the sun. So all of your ideas around
you know cyclical cataclysms
uh when it comes to the torid meteor
stream wouldn't be made possible without
that sort of architecture to the solar
system
and see so what happens is it's the
conjunctions of the large outer planets
that can perturb the comets in the inner
zone of the Kyper disc which are in very
quasi stable orbits which means that if
you have imagine that you got a flat
surface and you put a sphere on it.
Well, if you have an impulse in any
direction, it can move. Right? Now,
suppose you have a dimple in a flat
plane and you put your sphere in there.
Well, now it's going to take a whole lot
more force to move that because you've
got to overcome it the fact that it's
sitting in this depression, a basin.
See? Suppose on the other hand, it's
sitting on top of a hill, right? And
it's sitting there. As long as nothing
disturbs it, it sits there precariously
perched. But a little bit of force
pushed on it, it begins rolling down,
right? Quasi stable.
So comets on the inner portion of the
Kyper disc are quasi stable. So what
that means is that the the consequence
of that is the conjunctions of the large
outer planets when they conjunct like
let's say
uh you have Uranus and then you have
Neptune. Okay. So when they're on
opposite sides of the orbit whatever
influence they have just is minimal or
it cancels each other out. Okay. But now
Uranus is on a faster orbit than
Neptune. So it's coming along like this
and as it's catch c c c c c c c c c c c
c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c
c c c c c c c c c catching up the
gravity fields of the two objects will
combine right now let's say you've got
comets picture this big disc it's
rotating slowly about the sun it's way
out there you know outside the orbit of
uh Neptune it's rotating right they're
not just sitting there the whole disc is
rotating so now you have Uranus
[clears throat] and Neptune they combine
their gravity fields so the gravity is
pulling
and you've got a comet out here. So that
combined gravity pulling on that, what's
it going to do? It's going to be like
putting on the brakes.
Okay. Now, on the other hand, let's say
that a comet is behind it as you're
getting this conjunction. So now these
combined masses of of Uranus and Neptune
are in front of the comet. They're all
moving in the same direction. Now the
the gravity field is pulling. It's going
to accelerate.
Okay. So now, how does the comet then
respond to a deceleration or an
acceleration? An acceleration will move
it to a higher orbital level.
It'll it'll speed up and it'll move out.
It'll move away from the sun.
If it's decelerated, it will move in.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, it does.
As it slows down, it sort of falls in.
Yeah.
Closer to the sun.
When it does that, it now comes within
the zone of the planets.
Saturn, Uranus. So now you've got comets
within the orbit of Neptune. Think
Saturn, Uranus. Same f same thing.
If they break, if they slow down the
orbits, it'll transfer in. It'll come
inside the orbit of Saturn.
Now the big daddy granddaddy of
planetary masses is Jupiter.
It'll it then it'll be Jupiter that in
most cases the determinant picture
Jupiter with the thundersstone. So
Jupiter's sort of a
Jupiter will grab that comet and either
throw it back out
towards the outer outside the planetary
orbits or he'll throw it down towards
the sun.
Now that comet gets caught in that game
of cosmic pingpong where it's back and
forth between the Jovian orbit and the
sun. So it's doing this
and now what happens is with that
transfer of the comet into the zone of
the planet
what determines whether Jupiter throws
it towards the sun or
same principle here's Jupiter it's going
around the sun here
accelerating then
right here here comes the comet it's
rotating this way and here comes Jupiter
so as it's coming up like this gravity
is pulling on it slowing it down and it
falls in towards the sun
that's what does it. So, it's the huge
mass of Jupiter's gravity.
Aren't we about to hit a particularly
heavy time for the torid meteor stream?
Isn't the twice each year the earth
crosses the torid meteor stream?
That's what September
uh the end of October. The fall torid is
sometimes referred to as Halloween
meteors. And I gave a whole I've got a
whole presentation I did last Halloween
or day or two before Halloween where I
talk about the connection between the
ancient origins
of our uh Halloween celebration
and the Torid meteor shower.
Interesting. What are the what how do
those connect at all? Well, because for
one
because [clears throat] for one of the
things see the like the earth crosses
the torid meteor stream twice each year
and actually after the break I'll pull
up a graphic and I'll show you the
graphic
and what two month so it's it's uh
September
no late October early November
early November
takes about a week for earth to comp to
to cross
it's a southern and the northern torids
are the distinction yeah
then in late June early July. If we can
picture, let's push your cup over here.
Or or or the coaster. We can use the
coaster. There we go. That'll be the
sun.
Mhm.
You know that moment when you slip into
something and instantly wonder how you
ever lived without it? That's exactly
how I felt the first time I put on
Chubby's original stretch shorts. The
super elastic waistband feels like it
was custom made for comfort. And that
five and a half inch inseam hits the
perfect balance between freedom and
still being classy. I've been rocking
mine on hikes, backyard barbecues, and
of course researching for this show, and
they never disappoint. Chubby's spring
lineup isn't just about shorts, though
their shorts are hard to beat. Their
breathable stretch performance polos
wick moisture and move with you all day,
while the classic line swim trunks
deliver quick dry four-way stretch and a
built-in liner for maximum comfort. And
if you want maximum versatility, the
original stretch shorts come in 4 in, 5
1/2 in, and 7 in inseams, all in bold
prints that scream spring. Whether
you're getting dressed for your workday,
a workout, or a weekend getaway,
Chubbies has you covered. For a limited
time, Chubbies is giving our viewers 20%
off your order with our code Jesse at
chubbiesshorts.com.
That's code jesse j
ss@chubbieshorts.com.
Please support our show and tell them we
sent you. Don't blend in with the crowd.
Stand out with chubbies.
Okay. And this is the Earth.
Mhm.
Now the Earth is going around the Sun,
right?
Yeah.
Okay. So, here's what happens.
We get that
here. Picture that the torids are coming
in. Jupiter's out there somewhere up
there where the the screen is.
The the torid meteor stream is coming in
like this. It makes a parahhelian
passage around the sun. Mhm.
which is its closest passage to the sun.
Then it's coming out. Now bear in mind
that as these meteors and are coming in,
as they're getting closer and drawn into
the sun's massive gravity field, they're
accelerating, right? So they come flying
in going faster and faster. They make
that round, make the perihelion passage,
then they come out and immediately now
they're moving against the sun's
gravity. So the sun is now slowing them
down. M.
So now picture it's slowing down and
slowing down and then eventually it gets
far enough out that Jupiter's gravity
field is has a stronger attraction on it
than the sun's. Jupiter will begin
accelerating it and then it'll come out.
It'll round Jupiter or sometimes it
won't go out as far as Jupiter. It'll
it'll it'll fall back. Um but in any
case, you can picture it's making this
orbit like this. The torid meteor stream
[snorts] is
lays very close to the plane of the
ecliptic which is earth's orbital plane.
Now, if most comets that come in from
the Kyper disc are going to be ecliptic
plane comet comets because the Kyper
disc picture it's like a disc and it's
in that same roughly 15 16 um degree
band that the planet that the zodiacal
belt is and the which the planets move
right now the or cloud which is outside
of there is a sphere. If a comet comes
in from your cloud, it can come in at
any angle, right? And usually what that
means is that it comes in and it the
geometry of its orbit will be described
by a a parabola which is an open-ended
conic section. Whereas a Jovian orbit is
a closed ellipse. So if you can observe
a comet and make enough observations
over enough long long enough period of
time you can determine whether it's
orbital geometry is elliptical or
parabolic. If it's parabolic it's open.
So what that means it's coming in
circling the sun going out never to
return.
If it's elliptical you know it's going
to be periodic
toward meteor stream.
So that accounts for June the June
torids.
The June torid
are elliptical.
The the whole stream is elliptical.
Okay. the whole stream. Just picture a
stream of material and it's elliptical.
The stream itself is elliptical. Okay.
So now Earth's orbit intersects that in
two places. It intersects the torid
stream in late June, early July
and then again in late October, early
November. Now here's the the the thing
you have to grasp. the summertime torids
when the earth is crossing the stream
that stream is coming from around it's
just made its parhelion passage around
the sun. So if you were to look in the
sky towards the the radiant point from
which those meteors are emanating you're
looking right up towards the sun. So
what is that going to do to your the the
your visibility of the meteors? They're
going to be hard to detect, hard to see.
On the other hand, when you go to late
October, the stream is coming in from
this way. So, when you're looking
upstream, you're not you're looking away
from the sun.
You'll see light showers. And
so, now you'll see the meteors, right?
And you'll be able to see the radiant
point. And the radiant [clears throat]
point is that point in space
from which the meteors appear to be
emerging,
right? And you have, you know, one
example would be comet Shoemaker Levy 9,
which was, you know, a half mile wide in
diameter.
And that caused uh
basically the the when it impacted
Jupiter, it was 600 times uh all of the
uh you nuclear TNT. [clears throat]
The interesting thing about Shoemaker
leaving
was that it had been a it was a single
comet nucleus. M
it passed very close to Jupiter within
the uh the zone called the Ro limit.
Okay. The ro limit is the limit whereby
the gravity field of a primary mass can
overcome a sec the the and cause the
disagregation of a secondary mass. Now
Jupiter has this massive powerful
gravity field.
A comet nucleus is a very fryable. It's
it's it's a uh uh it's not a strongly
bound object like an iron asteroid,
right?
Yeah.
It it can break apart.
Shoemaker Lev9 passed within the Ro
limit of Jupiter.
The really powerful gravity field of
Jupiter ripped it apart and what had
been one nucleus
broke into 21 separate objects. Those 21
separate objects then began to spread
out in a so-called string of pearls and
that made one orbit around the sun and
came back out and crossed intersected
the orbit of Jupiter at precisely the
time Jupiter was there.
Right? Most likely what had been
happening is, you know, it had been
orbiting Jupiter dozens if not hundreds
of times and every time getting a little
closer. Every time it went out there was
drawn in a little tighter. We discovered
it right at that point where it was
making its final passage,
right? It may have made dozens of
passages before that. We discovered it
right at the beginning of its final
passage when it was had just been ripped
apart and was now 21 pieces. So in I
think the second week of July 1994,
those 21 pieces
impacted Jupiter.
Impacted Jupiter. Yes. One of them
that was 600 times the entire nuclear
arsenal on Earth in terms of its
destructive force. And uh what's kind of
worrying is I looked at the NASA dart
mission and you know that was a
spacecraft uh I think was knocking into
Dorphice which was a
dorphice which is actually two object
that's why it's
two die means two right yeah and the but
the spacecraft was you know was was was
pretty small and dorphice is pretty
small dorphice is what like 250 m or
something
was small
so it's you know you're talking about a
half mile wide versus 250 m. I still
worry about, you know,
and rightfully so.
Yeah.
Rightfully so. Now, the thing is the
larger object really the more lead time
you need.
Mhm.
And if we find an object, see, and just
like with Jupiter uh with Shoemaker Levy
9, you know, it took three months of
observations
because you basically need two things.
You need the velocity and you need the
geometry of the orbit. When you have
those two of what are called the orbital
elements, you can now make accurate
predictions about when and where
something is going to be in its orbit.
So when you describe the solar system as
it's set up to almost funnel in material
from uh outside of the kyber belt uh
you're almost talking about or touching
on this you know sort of anthropic
principle this idea that or fine-tuning
principle like if plank's constant were
slightly different you know gravity
would be different the whole climate of
the earth would be different.
Yes.
Do you think that the solar system was
intelligently designed? Well, see here
we get into some really deep questions
that I, you know, I say intelligently
designed. I'm almost, you know, my my
philosophy of life, spirituality and say
is that the entire universe seems to
have intelligence.
But what does that even mean? I don't
know. It's it's it's almost beyond my
comprehension, you know. Um, but let's
[clears throat] put it this way
and say I was totally an atheist and I
knew about and I studied these extremely
narrow range of parameters
within which it seems higher life is
even possible.
Right? I would if I was an atheist I
would have to conclude this that our
solar system is extremely unique in that
it has exactly these extremely narrowly
defined parameters that has allowed life
to emerge first of all even to emerge on
earth second to get from single cell
microbial life up to us
for example you we talked about the moon
earlier if you take the moon away
there's no intertital zone So fine,
let's
not to mention the earth would be not
rotating in a stable way around its
axis. It would be wobbling.
The moon [clears throat] actually think
of the moon is like a great stabilizing
force.
Yes.
That that helps keep the earth
locked into its 23 and 1 half degree
tilt.
Another reason it might be
geomagnetically [clears throat]
engineered.
Yeah. Well, see, I'm I'm so mindboggled
at the whole situation that I I try to
wrap my head around
and it seems like no matter what
explanation I come up with, it's just
beyond our ability to even fathom.
Well, do you think that NASA might have
figured something out? Because I mean
obviously there are all these sort of
conspiracies around Neil Armstrong comes
back. He gives a speech three weeks
afterwards and he's giving the speech
and he he looks kind of he goes this is
a big step for mankind and he looks very
kind of scared and sheepish and like
he's been you know dragged out there and
possibly traumatized you know around
what he saw.
Uh and so yeah is there's something that
we're missing in terms of the the story
uh with the moon you know
I think there's a lot we're missing. Was
this created sort of as a noble
mythology around the space race with the
Soviets where we wanted to encourage
[clears throat] maybe rightly so you
know uh technological innovation and and
and exploration and and the knowledge of
a final frontier but uh maybe maybe you
know we sacrificed ontological truth in
the process
perhaps or we're getting closer to it. I
mean I I you know what I try to do is I
say you know there are cosmological and
epistemological questions that I don't
know if I could answer. So I I kind of
like bring it in a little little closer.
Um and I I think like in terms of this
if if we look at the very narrow range
of parameters that we see in our
particular solar system, I was about to
say about the moon creating this inner
tidal zone, you know, and if you if
you're let's say you're geoengineering a
planet and you're introducing life into
the marine realm, you you have to have
an ocean first of all. You introduce
life into there, but in order to get the
higher life, you have to bring it out
onto the land. If that's a requirement
to get higher sentient beings with with,
you know, 1100 cubic centimeter cranial
capacities able to think and reason and
and uh all of the things that go along
with our intelligence,
you have to go through a certain
sequence of of of
transitional phases. Well, to get from
the the ocean onto land would be
impossible essentially without an
intermediary zone where you could where
species could make that transition from
an exclusively marine existence to an
exclusively terrestrial existence that's
provided by the intertidal zone. You
know, even earlier early early um
speculations about the origins of life
always went to these, you know, the tide
pools um that form in the intertidal
zone as being the the the optimum
nurturing place for multi-elled life.
You got all sorts of chemical reactions,
primordial soup,
but you take the moon away, you got no
intertital zone.
And now it's a whole lot trickier to get
life from the ocean onto the land. M do
you think in some ways, you know, maybe
we're part of a cosmic war and that um
you know, if you [clears throat] had to
describe the two factions sort of very
roughly speaking, there's maybe one
celestial faction that minds humanity
for consciousness or sort of wants to
keep us sort of in the fetal position or
or repressed or dumbed down. and maybe
Allah Roswell a lot of our internet
technology was sort of dropped by these
people uh to distract us constantly or
not but not not people but beings and
then there's some other you know uh uh
there's some other entities that are
maybe you know want us to ascend to
their level and want us to so you the
dichotomy would be described by like you
know antichrist and Armageddon and uh
you know on the one hand you know the
apocalypse the great unveiling you can
you see more And then on the other hand,
you know, we're we're sort of chained to
our little cubicles and we're
maybe being mined for something, you
know, uh not not not, you know,
unwittingly, if that makes sense.
That's a interesting scenario and
[clears throat] I'm not sure if I
necessarily go along with it. Um,
you know, I don't rule out the
possibility of
interstellar contact.
I am tend to be skeptical about the UFO
phenomena being interstellar.
You think it's sort of non-Capernican.
You think it's earthbased. That's what
like if you talk to Jacques Valle, he
would say that they've been with us for
thousands of years and they're sort of
controlling like the earth in many ways
is like you know they're upping and
lowering the thermostat and they have a
control system
and religion has a protoarchitecture
that maybe these beings have created.
Well, see, that's where my thinking
where I tend to is is not so much these
beings as being the other, but basically
just being a separate branch of
humanity.
So interesting. Okay, so let's get into
that. So are these the Atlanteanss?
Well, there are traditions going back to
the Calaldanss to the Samrians. I mean,
I think Rob brought we have it right
here. They called the account of uh
I don't know if I could find the passage
immediately, but but there are
references to when for example the great
catastrophe overwhelmed the earth, the
gods
is your point that maybe at every
civilizational cycle when there's
cataclysm, some subset saves themselves.
Yes.
Interesting.
Yes. In fact, I think there's a
tradition that's been handed down. Now,
this is speculative, but I think that
one could make a pretty strong
circumstantial [snorts]
case.
Yeah.
That there has existed since prehistoric
times a tradition about these great
cycles and how the planet is subject to
periodic catastrophes. Let me let me
Do you think we're verging on one now?
Let me put it this way.
I think that what happens is
[clears throat] here's the analogy I've
used many times. I think it's an
appropriate analogy. Suppose you're on a
big racetrack and you're in a car.
You're driving along and there's nobody
else on the racetrack. You're let's say
it's a country road and it's a huge big
elliptical highway you're on and there's
nobody on it, right? No traffic. All
right? So, you're
listening to your headphones. you're
maybe, you know, texting while you're
driving because it's cool. You're going
down a country road, nice, spacious
country road, and there's nobody else on
it, right? You don't drive with the same
attention and the same type of awareness
as you do if you're in rush hour
traffic, obviously, right? I love
driving on country roads when there's no
other traffic and just sitting back
enjoying the scenery, listening to some
tunes, maybe, you know, having a talk
now and then. Or at least back in the
old days. In the old days, anymore.
Not. No, not anymore. [laughter] That is
way back in the old days, you know. Um,
[clears throat]
but suppose you're driving down the road
and up ahead there's an intersection and
it's a busy highway that crosses the
road you're on and there's traffic
coming and going or they maybe they're
all maybe it's one way. They're all
going in the same direction
for a little while. When you're crossing
that intersection, the probabilities or
possibilities of an impact of having a
crash go up by orders of magnitude. Now,
as you're traversing that intersection
at this point now, you need to be
cautious. You need to be aware of what
you're doing. um presumably if you can
accelerate or break as you need to. But
let's say you're in a car where you have
no control over it's a one of maybe uh
what do they call it? The robot the the
the car self-driving cars
self-driving cars.
You're on a self-driving car. So, okay.
So, now you're coming up to this
intersection. You got to go, well, I
hope that there's a space when I come up
there. Now the probabilities
[clears throat]
of an impact of a crash are going to be
totally dependent upon the density of
the traffic.
Do you do you think this is the hermetic
reason to try to get to the moon?
We'll come back to that. Good question.
Come back to that. So to complete the
analogy is this. Um if you know that
there are periods where you're crossing
the intersection, there's two things to
take away from this. It's not
necessarily for ordained that you're
going to 100% every time you're going to
have a crash. It simply means that the
periodicity is that there are zones
where the susceptibility of a crash
increases by orders of magnitude. Right?
I think this is an analogy of kind of
like what we're in. There are places
like for example, let's say that there's
a red light somewhere down on this
highway that you're crossing. So what
happens is a red light when if if
there's no red lights cars naturally
gets spread out kinematically that's
called okay if there's a red light
everybody gets clustered right so the
red light changes to green and now
instead of cars spread out they're
clustered and they're moving along
together right let's say that for
whatever reason as you're crossing the
highway there are zones where the
density is fairly low but there's other
places where the density is high. Right
now, instead of a highway, you're
crossing, you're crossing a meteor
stream. Depending on how old that meteor
stream is is going to determine how
spread out the stuff is and whether or
not there are clusters, clumps if you
will, within that orbit. That's exactly
analogist to the to the torid meteor
stream. If you know that we cross that
torid meteor stream twice each year and
that within that stream which covers
millions of miles there are clumps. If
you knew that you know what in such and
such year
for 10 years we're going to be crossing
the stream
when there's a high density clump there.
Okay. So now you know that the
probabilities
the the danger it's not again for
ordained that there's absolutely certain
that you're going to have an impact but
what you know is is that the possibility
of an impact goes up exponentially.
Now if you're a civilization and you
know that and you're aware of that what
do you do? How do you plan for such a
thing? I'd say there's two things. one,
you [clears throat] try to take
preventative action somehow to prevent
the crashes to prevent that. How do you
do that? Well, [clears throat]
the idea I like most is that you are
actually able to move stuff out of the
way if you've got a an advanced enough
civilization. And we saw the very very
first attempts at that with the Dart
mission. Imagine that we continue the
dart experiments um for another 50 or
100 years. I'd say we're probably going
to be pretty good at being able to nudge
dangerous asteroids out of the way.
Maybe you get the the second stage of
Starship which is much bigger. You know,
there
one of these that might be able to move
something bigger. But let's say that you
also know that there might be
circumstances where particularly if
you're in a clump if the difference
between a single asteroid
and a the shower of a fragmented comet
nucleus will actually be two very
different scenarios
because in a in a cometary shower you
might have hundreds of objects. Now
[snorts] the other thing I said in the
the summertime torids, late June, early
July, what happened in late June of
1908?
Tunguska event.
Tunguska.
Isn't there speculation that the [music]
1908 Tungusa correct event was possibly
correct? Correct. Because the Tunguska
event took place on the 30th of June
198. [music] It was an air burst. It
exploded in the air, flattened 2,000
square miles of trees, didn't kill
anybody [music] because it was over an
uninhabited area of Siberia, but did
enormous, enormous damage. And the fact
that it occurred on the 30th of June
suggests very strongly that it was part
of the torid meteor stream because that
is the peak [music] of the torids in
June.
Almost certainly a member of the Torid
meteor stream.
June 30th.
June 30th. And it also actually its
radiant point where it came from space.
Remember, here's the sun, right? Exactly
where it needed to be if it was a member
of the
So, the second thing you would do
outside of deflection [clears throat]
technology is move underground.
Move to a place of refuge
or a place of refuge, which could be the
moon,
which could be off planet and to a a
civilization with space fairing
capabilities. To me,
the moon would be the logical place. So
why would they have some sort of prime
directive of non-interference if they're
so far advanced, you know? So let's just
assume let's this is we're crazy
speculative territory here. I know that
you know [clears throat] you're not
you're not saying any of this is true,
but say that there's aspects of the
Atlanteanss. Say that there are groups
of Atlantanss that uh saved themselves
and moved into sort of compartments of
the moon. Uh and maybe they're the UFOs
that we've been seeing. Maybe they use
sort of water on Earth to refuel. Maybe
they're actually underwater bases as
well.
Again, crazy speculation. If that's
true, why do they seem to be so weakly
entangled with
human beings? [clears throat] Why do
present themselves to us?
I would say this. Um I think as we
advance, like I look at what's happening
right now and I look at what our own
government has done since World War II,
it's interfered and intervened in
a hundred different things,
you know, engineering,
uh, you know, uh, elections, organizing
coups,
you know, economic interference,
political interference, military
interference.
Yeah.
And what we see now is we're sitting
here moving close to a major
confrontation with the greatest nuclear
power on Earth.
Yeah. It's pretty scary. For what? For
what purpose ultimately is the endgame
of us trying to control eastern Ukraine?
You know, man, I I it's Yeah. No, that's
crazy. And it's it's provocatorish and
[clears throat]
and it's and it's scary. I think uh the
the today, as of today, the Russians
dispatched this nuclear ship uh and it's
it's now above Norway.
And so, and then uh you know, we just
ordered all of our citizens to leave
Russia. And you know, we have no idea
why. It's very scary.
Crazy, crazy.
And I think Putin has a tattoo that says
Ben a knee for no man. And you know,
obviously was president of the not the
KGB, the FSB or were very involved in
the KGB. Not a thug. Not a good guy.
Now, here's Yeah. He doesn't, you know,
none of the Soviet leaders were good
guys, but we managed to avoid war with
them. We carried on diplomatic
relations. That's how we avoided war,
right? Um you know um Roosevelt met with
with um Stalin. Stalin was way worse
than Putin.
Way worse.
Way worse. Yeah. And I mean
Stalin was um Time [clears throat]
magazine's man of the year in 1945.
Yeah. It was Well, yeah. But so we've
you know from you know through from
Stalin through Cruchef through you know
Andropov Cash Cigan Yeltson
male Gorbachev
we have carried on dialogues
right this is not going on now
well here's what my basic mapping of the
[clears throat] world is it's almost
like the globalist forces that repressed
war over the last 70 years like the sort
of neoliberal order [snorts]
is in its death throws.
Well, I'm hoping see and this circles
back to your question. I think that what
we have now is we have a
uh
belligerently interventionist foreign
policy. M
I think that if we evolved to where our
leaders were wise
um you know and looking at the long-term
picture they would realize that this
kind of intervention is ultimately going
to lead to the demise of civilization.
Well the the US is running a loop that
worked for some time. you know it it
works and [clears throat] then you had
you know desert storm and then you get
Iraq in 2003 and then it's just
continuous like sort of false flag
create an opus and then you go in and
you know the dollar is it's a petro
dollar it's tied to oil and so you
create all these sort of mandates to be
you know pretty aggressive and and
almost be kind of a neoimperial regime
and it and it really did work for a long
time but it worked in a regime of
economic growth um and domestic you
know, relative domestic peace and uh it
doesn't it feels like a cargo cult now
like it's not working. You're running
this like kind of loop that doesn't
really work anymore.
And so it's scary.
It is scary and it's it's leading us
into a confrontation because there's no
see when you go back to the days of you
know the diplomacy and you actually had
people running this country who I think
had some level of consciousness about
them. And you look at some of the the
great leaders after World War II, you
know, going say John Kennedy, he was to
me a preeminent example of somebody who
you can even see the the wisdom um just
in the few years that's that's emerging
in his his understanding of the world.
Um you know, we can certainly get into
all the discussion of his assassination
and all of that. I think that was a
major turning point,
but they didn't make people like even
him today. Like he he won a Purple Heart
I think in Vietnam or sorry, no, he won
a won a Purple Heart in World War II.
Yeah.
Um
because he like dragged one of his
people crewmen on of his ship by his
teeth to shore two miles. He swam he
saved the guy's life. Yeah. And then
they were like, you know, on on on the
beach somewhere for for like two days
until uh
uh somebody in the air finally found
them. Fighter pilot finally found them.
And so, you know, that's not today's
leaders. That's not
you don't you can't find that anymore.
It is not.
And that's him. And you know, people
then would probably call him soft
compared to like Theodore Roosevelt. So
perhaps so. But here's I guess the point
would be this. I think that if we
survive as a civilization on this
planet, it's going to become because the
dominant powers
basically become non-interventionist.
In other words, I have neighbors next
door here and we're friends and we
communicate in this. We don't fight,
right? I don't intervene in their
business. They don't intervene in mine.
And because we don't do that, we get
along.
What we have now is an a a a a
government that's totally committed to
intervention around the entire world.
This is full spectrum dominance. This is
global hegemony. This is what there's a
cabal within the US government that
wants to dominate the entire planet. And
one of the things the greatest obstacles
to that dominance is Russia. Because for
one thing, Russia isn't buying into the
new world order
that they're and and they've decided
that they're going to disconnect from
the uh the American dollar and perhaps
even go back to gold.
Do you think that there um is
[clears throat] a kind of a paramilitary
group or there kind of old old wealthy
families that might have leverage over
the United States beyond the kind of
It seems like prima fascia.
It seems like it. I I don't know if
there's really any hidden hands so much
as I I'm kind of more of the mind that
we can we can figure out and see who who
the key players are.
Do you think there are uh elements of
the US government that are have
retrieved alien craft and are reverse
engineering it?
Well, now see that brings us back to the
other question that you asked that we
haven't really answered yet is why you
asked this. Why have they not if these
hypothetical
entities living wherever and we're we're
speculating that perhaps based on the
moon. You asked why they haven't
intervened.
Yeah. Why do they drop little things
here?
Well, I think at most
I I I would think that's exactly how we
would do it. Um, if we, you brought up
the cargo coats, if we were trying to
make contact with a primitive
civilization, let's say that there's a
civilization on an island that, you
know, I mean, for even in going into the
20th century, we know that there were
advanced industrial cultures living
almost side by side with primitive
hunter gatherers.
Say you're Indian now and you want to
affect the North Sentinel who haven't
been touched. Basically, what do what do
you do? Like, you know, would you act
like the Atlanteanss on the moon or
acting?
I would think that's how you
[clears throat] would do it.
So, so in what in your mind, what have
they been doing? They've been
airdropping tech here and there and
well, maybe whispering in scientists
earing up in our skies to let us know
that, hey, there's something bigger
going on here.
Uhhuh.
And I don't think we need to go to the
stars and think extraterrestrial for
that.
Yeah. because I think we could we I
think we could make the case that that
and and this actually fits quite well
with some of the the ancient traditions
that
humanity has split on maybe even several
occasions.
And if we were faced with the kind of
disaster on the scale of the younger dus
now and we knew that that you know we a
large comet comes into the inner solar
system and we are observing it on a
monthly and yearly basis undergoing a
hierarchy of fragmentation events and we
know that sooner or later we're going to
have encounters where it's very likely
that this planet gets pummeled. What do
we do? Well, we could do a bunch of
things, but the main thing
is we create create a place of refuge.
And the logical place, and this is even
scenarios that have been profered by
NASA,
is that a logical place for us to create
a place of refuge would be the moon. And
this is being presented with no
reference whatsoever to the possibility
that this may have once or more than
once happened before. And in fact, think
about this, Jesse. What if there was a
tradition that there was an ongoing
place of ref just like think about the I
the book the I how the Irish saved
civilization. What happened during those
dark ages of the of the 500s to like the
900s, 400 years where the advance the
forward momentum of civilization almost
came to a screeching halt, right? And
[clears throat] we can see, excuse me,
we can see the effects weren't just
cultural, they were also natural. We can
see that there was literal times of
darkness. Uh the years 536 to 542 AD
were periods where, you know, the the
the the the records of the monks and the
the people who were living through that
time talk about weeks and months at a
time when they couldn't see the sun.
That could be the result of two things.
It could be a a spasm of volcanic
activity that fills the atmosphere with
stuff or it could be close encounters
with disintegrating comets.
Fred Hy has done a whole scenario where
some of the particulate matter of a
disintegrating comet nuclei would so
saturate the upper atmosphere and have
be so highly reflective that it would
that that thermal energy of the sun
would get radiated back into space and
it would do two things. it would create
perpetual uh absence of the sun from the
visible sun in the sky and it would also
cause a plunge in the temperature. Those
two things seem to have happened
simultaneously
in that period in the mid6th century.
This in turn led to pretty much a
collapse of civilization that took
around 400 years for civilization at
least in Europe anyway to recover. And
that recovery occurred once the cold and
the dark dissipated and the the warmth
of the medieval warm period came back
again in between uh you know around a
th000 AD
right now. Think of it this way.
[clears throat] you had during that
period of time like you can again I
would recommend the whole the book how
the Irish saved civilization because
during that time
the Irish retreated into a series of
monasteries
and what they did was they dedicated
themselves to preserving
as much of the knowledge
of the times uh the historical records
the the the traditions to keep all of
that alive [clears throat] and so you
have Deritic and Celtic traditions being
preserved in these monasteries.
And when
the climate of the earth ameliated again
with the with the return of the warmth
and the sun, they were there with their
books.
They were there with their traditions
that they had preserved. This helped to
accelerate the recovery of Western
civilization.
So what if but if you're the
Atlanteanss, why don't you just come
down? You say, "Hey, we have this
advanced technology. we can get a bunch
of you up to the moon. Are they waiting
to see who's worthy? Is that it?
Well, there could be a number of reasons
for that. Um,
limited space on the moon,
I'm thinking. Well, that Well, there
might be more space than you would
anticipate, but the um
the Earth is the moon is a fourth of the
Earth's size. Is that right?
It's a good 2.72, I think. Let's see.
Um,
yeah, the moon is to the Earth as 11 is
to three. Okay. So, yeah, roughly.
Yeah.
Okay.
11 to three is very close to the Earth
Moon diameter ratios.
Do you worry about a a [snorts]
cataclysm or maybe answer that question
first? Yeah. So, why why don't they
interfere with us more directly or why
would they try to help us more directly?
Well, I think that um part of it is I
think they have a very strict and of
course purely speculative, but it would
seem to me that if you advance to that
level, you would most likely practice a
strict non-interventionist policy.
Why is that?
Well, the same reason because there's
always downsides. When we whenever we
intervene, there's always a downside.
Oh, we're going to intervene with our
foreign aid. Well, what happens? The
foreign aid doesn't go to the
recipients. It goes to a bunch of
oligarchs and dictators who use it to
oppress their people
like the Iraq war. You remove Saddam as
a sort of a pressure valve.
Exactly.
And all of a sudden
Iran is emboldened and ISIS.
I think that what we've seen 20th
century history has shown us that
there's always blowback
or the CIA trains Osama bin Laden and
the Yes.
Hajadine. That's what I mean. There's
always this blowback and at some point
you figure out, okay, you know what?
We're not going to intervene anymore
politically or militarily.
We'll we'll practice free trade, but
there won't be a policy and and and
so there's a huge difference between
free trade and cultural exchange,
artistic exchange that happens that
brings people together.
So Gene Rodenberry, the creator of Star
Trek, had it right. Says prime
directive, non-inference. Yes.
There we go.
Interesting.
Yes.
And do you think that gravity is uh do
you do do you have a theory of physics
that um maybe transcends gravity? Do you
think gravity is maybe couched within
electromagnetism or
this gets complicated and this brings us
into some of the where I'm at now with
my studies?
Yeah.
And and as I'm trying to wrap my head
around plasma physics as possibly
Yeah. in part of our own energy future
as well as possibly our remote energy
past.
Well, people have always wondered about
gravity. Well, I've So, the two
anomalies that I always look at in
physics, and I'm an idiot when it comes
to this stuff, but the things
intuitively that I feel are off are
gravity and time.
And in relativity, those [clears throat]
two are coupled in very weird ways. And
then when you get to super subscale
quantum, you you can't really reconcile
that with gravity, right?
And then you possibly get some time
spookiness around subatomic scales as
well. That you know, that would be
certain interpretations.
Um and so yeah, obviously gravity's much
much weaker than the electromagnetic
force as well. Is there some sort of
magnetic
pulling force between celestial bodies
that weakly correlates with its mass but
that's more magnetic in nature or yeah I
don't know how do you think about it?
I don't really have thoughts on that so
much as but thinking about you know the
whole issue of quantum entanglement and
can I shift gears then
unless you want
okay
do you think the the magnetic field of
the earth is weakening which then allows
for all sorts of solar storm events and
I think scary
X-ray I I think you know radiation I
think it's more volatile and dynamic
than it has been assumed. I don't you
know what does it take to cause a
magnetic field reversal? I think the
last magnetic field reversal was about
700,000 years ago.
But there's also magnetic geomagnetic uh
excursions they're referred to. What
causes that? I don't know. I would
certainly think though that what the
events of the younger dus if anything
would be capable of causing fluctuations
within the geomagnetic field. those
events could be
and and why is that? So, there's a guy
named Charles Hapg good who we've talked
about and he writes about pole shifts.
Yeah.
And there are people especially a lot of
people online that are like you know
every 12,000 years the poles shift and
then you know everything resets.
That to me feels way too kind of neat
and perfect and oversimplified. And so
[clears throat] you have an interesting
explanation for why the poles shift
which then might result in geomagnetic
anomalies as well. But there's something
upstream of both of those, right? Well,
I wish I had my globe sitting on the
table here, which I will have here
eventually, but the Earth is
[clears throat] an oblate spheroid. The
um equatorial diameter is 26 milesi
greater than the polar diameter. So that
means that [clears throat] if you're
starting at the equator, you travel at
the equator to the North Pole, you've
gone downhill 13 miles
relative to the Earth's center of mass.
You've gone downhill 13 miles. Okay.
Now, as the earth is spinning, you have
the distance, say, from the crust at the
equator is going to be 13 miles farther
from the earth's center of gravity than
say Antarctica now or or the the the
Arctic ocean
crust. Right? Now what happens is is
during an ice age you have this gigantic
transfer of surface mass. Right now at
the beginning of the Wisconsin ice age
we went from a state of basically less
far less
glacial ice on the earth than there is
now. This is you know way back say
108,000 years ago. [snorts]
Okay. So now over a period of a very
short period of time in the geological
framework, you have this enormous
transfer of mass
out of the ocean basins up onto the
continent up to the point where ocean
levels worldwide drop 400 450 ft. You
get 6 to 7 million cubic miles of
glacial ice piled up on the Earth's
surface.
Now, I've gotten very much into this the
phenomena of how the crust of the earth
responds to this redistribution of
surface mass and I get very much into
that in my Atlantis 8 hour 9h hour
Atlantis lecture that's available online
for download if anybody is interested in
diving into this further. Okay. So what
happens is is there isostatic adjustment
that's called which ever since the 60s
we've accepted that there's lateral
movements of the earth's crust. You know
Hapg good in a sense kind of anticipated
continental drift although in his
scenarios it was much much faster than
the models of CL continental drift now
is a few centimeters per year. And so
supposedly, you know, if you have a um a
uh [clears throat and cough] you know,
coalescing where plates are coming
together, you're going to have either an
overriding of one plate or you're going
to have a buckling. This produces
orogenesis, the uplifting of mountains.
Um if you got like on the leading edge
of a plate, or if you're on a a
separation zone like the mid-Atlantic
ridge, it's going to be separating. Uh
magma's going to be welling up from the
mantle, spreading out. And this is how
they set up that chronostratographic
framework based upon changes in the
geomagnetic field because when the magma
crystallizes it it freezes in it locks
in the orientation of the minerals along
the prevailing magnetic field. Right? So
this is how we know that the magnetic
field the primary way we know that the
magnetic field has is actually quite
dynamic. But now getting back to what
I'm talking about here is that we're
accepting lateral movement and we know
just from Hudson Bay for example that uh
and [clears throat] even from oh studies
around Lake Bonavville and other places
that the earth's crust can move
vertically. This is the isostatic
movement vertical. Right now, up in
Hudson Bay, it appears that the crust of
the Earth has been depressed by the
weight of the ice at least 1500 ft,
maybe in places much more than that.
Now, picture you've got a big beach
ball, right? That's the That's the
Earth. And let's say we decide to put
massive amounts of weight at both of the
poles and it's going to compress the
Earth this way. What's going to happen
this way? It's going to expand, isn't
it? The beach ball, assuming that that
the amount of air is constant, the beach
ball is going to try to maintain a a um
a a uniformity, a consistency of volume.
So, in other words, if it shrinks one
way, it has to compensate by expanding
elsewhere. This is why I get into the
whole question of what happened with
Atlantis is because when you pile up 6
million cubic miles of ice onto North
America and maybe another million cubic
m 2 million cubic miles of ice over
northwestern Europe, it's squashing down
the crust. Right now, at the same time
you're doing that, what you're doing is
you're creating subsurface pressures.
Also, as you're increasing the weight
here, what's happening to the weight of
the water in the ocean basins? Because
the the water in the oceans is being
evaporated out, precipitated out as
snowfall. But when you have the onset of
a glacial age, the whole natural yearly
annual hydraological cycle of the planet
is completely disrupted. Like right now,
what happens is that we get a lot of
snow in Canada, northern United States.
accumulates every winter. Spring comes,
it melts, it goes into the rivers, it's
transported back to the sea, it goes
into the groundwater, right?
So, you've got this this um this
constancy
in in the system, the amount of water
evaporated out. It may [clears throat]
in the summer it falls as rainfall, but
and it immediately
goes into the hydrosphere. If it's a
northern latitude, Canada for example,
northern Europe, it falls a snowfall,
but then there's a delay of up to months
at a time before it melts and
reintroduces into the hydrosphere.
Right? So now what happens with the
onset of a glacial age? It is almost
this it would be almost and and given
that we know about the time frames in
which these climatic transitions can
occur. It is almost as if somebody flips
a switch, winter comes on and then it
doesn't end for 10,000 years.
But the conundrum and the problem is is
you're still evaporating very large
volumes of water out of the ocean basins
to precipitate out and build up an ice
sheet that's a mile, mile and a half,
maybe even two miles thick. So there's
the paradox of an ice age. For one
thing, it's got to be cold enough that
that snow is piling up, compressing down
first into fern, then to compress down
more into glacial ice, but it's not
melting. But at the same time, you're
getting huge amounts of snowfall, which
means that there's water vapor up in the
atmosphere. And how does that water
vapor get there? It requires heat.
There's your conundrum.
Can you explain that paradox?
No, I can't.
I have some kind of vague thoughts on
it, but let's circle back to this idea
of isostasy.
The onset of an ice age comes along. It
interrupts that cycle. Mhm.
Now, what happens is winter comes on to
the world and it doesn't go away for
10,000 12,000 years.
Mhm.
You've got this huge mass of ice
pressing down. You have hundreds of
trillions of billions of tons of ice
pressing down on the surface of the
earth. At the same time, weight is being
released from the ocean basins. So,
what's going to happen naturally to the
ocean basins? What's going to be the
counterpart of the pushing down the
isoatic depression under the ice sheets?
It's going to go in the other direction,
isn't it?
The ocean basins are going to raise up
isostatically.
[cough and clears throat] And then when
you reverse that and you melt away the
ice sheets, pour that water back into
the ocean, what's going to happen now?
The ocean is going to res basins are
going to respond isostatically by
depressing the continents as we know
from observations are going to rebound.
Now think about what happens in the
geophysical sense of the distribution of
the continental masses, the crust of the
earth when over a period of a few
thousand years, which is just a
geological instant. It's suddenly 2,000
feet out of whack with the latitude it
would normally be at.
In other words, if you push down the ser
the polar region, like say North
America's pushed down 2,000 feet, you
release that weight. It's now
rebounding.
But when it's rebounded 2,000 ft farther
away from the center of mass, now it's
not in equilibrium with its latitude
anymore, is it?
No. So what is it going to try to do in
order to achieve re-equilibrium?
I think that what happens is is that
with the process of glaciation, rapid
glaciation or rapid deglaciation, it
induces a tremendous amount of
instability in the Earth's crust that
could manifest as an accelerated episode
of continental of of lithospheric
movement. And that would explain the
pole shift.
And that would explain the pole shift.
Fascinating.
But I don't think that it's something
that occurs,
you know, in days or weeks. I think it
takes several thousand years. And in
fact, it's still happening.
It's still happening. But one more thing
within that, I think there are episodes
where the transition just like what we
saw happen in Turkey and Syria.
The stress builds up on a fault line. It
keeps building up and building up until
finally it it overcomes the resistance
of the rock.
It moves and it creates a an earthquake.
And you've said that there can be
possibly tropical zones in Antarctica,
right?
Oh, yeah. There are there are
at least subtropical zones.
What about now?
What do you mean what about now?
Are there any sort of habitable possibly
habitable zones in Antarctica?
In Antarctica?
Yeah.
The South Pole?
I don't know.
Interesting.
It's a whole another uh
Do you know Do you know Admiral Richard
Bird?
I know the stories.
What do you think of that story?
I don't know what to think. I guess we
need to do an Antarctica expedition.
Let's do it.
You've been suggesting it, haven't you?
I can't wait. Yeah, let's do. I'd love
to.
Okay.
Um
can we do the Azors first?
Yeah, let's do the Azors first.
It sounds more suitable for my
disposition at this point in my life.
Perpetual spring.
Yeah, there you go. Yeah. More of a
Caribbean cruise.
Yeah. [laughter]
Um, you've been a Freemason for over 30
years.
Well, let's see. I was initiated 1978.
How many years is that going on?
Wow.
45 years.
Yeah. Almost.
I was a young man of 27 when I was
initiated.
Okay. Okay. I was raised in March of
1979,
became master of my lodge in 1990.
Randall, you've been a Freemason for
over 40 years.
Unbelievable.
Unbelievable. Um, how does that dovetail
with your interest in the origins of
humanity and in these civilizational
cataclysms?
I mean, very much. How do they connect?
Masons are the custodians of a very rich
tradition of ancient knowledge.
Um
what is that ancient knowledge?
Well,
architecture, sacred geometry,
astronomy, music.
You're you build both homes and
commercially during the day. That's your
day job, which always fascinated me
because I don't know how you know as
much as you do about this sort of
esoteric stuff and and the geology. And
yet you are able to uh be we're we're
going to a restaurant later that you
built.
That's right.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah, it is very cool. Um well, you
know, to me it's all intertwined. You
know, my interest in geology, sorry,
geometry primarily stems from early
building projects I did in the early
70s. you know, building Buckminister
Fuller Dome, for example.
You built like you built uh what do they
call Bucky? Uh
yeah, Bucky domes.
Bucky domes. Yeah, you built a Bucky
Dome.
Yeah, a couple of them.
Really?
Yeah.
Is that true?
Yeah, that's true. I wouldn't I wouldn't
make that up.
So, that that got you into Freemasonry.
Was Buckminister Fuller?
Well, I didn't do it with Buckminister
Fuller.
Ah,
no. I mean, no, I never met Bucky. I
would have loved to have met Bucky, but
I didn't. No, I know you didn't meet,
[clears throat] but but but uh but you
built Bucky Domes and was he was he
inspired by Freemasonry in any way?
I don't I've never seen any evidence of
that, but maybe
my friend was just telling me that he
went to this place called Black Mountain
College or something or Black Mountain
University. North Carolina.
North Carolina. Exactly.
Which I've been there. Yeah.
Freemasonic in some ways because it was
so interdisciplinary and it taught Plato
and
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that kind of has
served that way as a model
a smaller scale model of the school I'd
like to build,
which we are going to build.
Wait, so so
how does what does Freemasonry have to
do with this?
Well, Freemasonry historically, I think
we can trace it back to the the
conservative interpretation is it traces
back to the early 1700s, but and when I
became a Mason, that was a dominant
view. I think there's been plenty of
scholarship now that can show us
succession going back to the middle
ages.
Yeah.
And the building of the Gothic
cathedrals. And I think there were two
uh traditions that sort of merged
together that that became the basis for
modern firming. One being the guild uh
this the lodge system of guild builders
that actually built the cathedrals and
the Templar knights. M
and because we find [clears throat] both
very prevalent throughout modern
masonic.
How did how did the Templars [snorts] uh
affect the Freemasons?
Well, I think a lot of their
particularly in things like the York
right and and a lot of the ceremonies
and stuff there's a lot of Templar
references um things that seem to have
parallels with what we know about
Templar ceremonies and things. Um,
so yeah, I think that the the two main
streams that came together out of which
modern Freemasonry was born was the
Templar tradition and the and the guild
tradition of of of
cathedral builders.
So are these, you know, in popular lore,
people see Masons both as very good, you
know, the founding fathers were all
masons, obviously,
uh, and then and then sometimes evil and
sort of trying to control the world or
whatever. And you even read like Manley
P. calls what is [clears throat] it like
the secret destiny of America or
whatever and it [snorts] just feels this
like this sort of globalist aspiration.
Well, I I'd like to point out that you
know if you know Masons are very proud
of famous individuals that have been
Masons. Um so it's well documented who's
been a Mason in history who at present
is is a Mason. Although here's the
thing. If you start looking at all of
the characters now
that we think of when we talk about New
World Order, when we talk about the
World Economic Forum, the World Health
Organization, when we talk about, you
know, the the the the main politicians
that are, you know, when we look at all
of that, you're not going to find any
Freemasons.
You know, you look at Claus Schwab,
George Soros, you know, Bill Gay, you
start going down the list. What are what
are those people and what ties?
I don't know what they are, but they're
not Freemasons.
Do you think they're old old European
families that sort of
I think some you know obviously the
Rothschilds and and see here's the
thing. You might have had some of these
people become Freemasons obviously, but
I here I'll point out several things.
You said you mentioned the founding
fathers. A lot of them were Freemasons
and they drew their traditions of the
worth of the individual, of liberty, of
democracy and all those were being
practiced within the lodge system
before
America was founded.
Yeah. The Washington Monument is an
obelisk and it's an obelisk. The eye of
Osiris on the
Freemasons,
you know, again, you know, if you look
like the biblical injunction, you know,
by their works you shall know them. I
mean, Freemasons do incredible work and
they they they
assue
uh any kind of recognition. They I mean
to the extent that you know um I'll use
an example. You ever heard of the
Scottish Wright Hospital for crippled
and burned children?
No. Is that Freemason?
Look it up. Look it up. Look up Scottish
right Hospital.
Yes. They they on average in America and
I this used to be accurate since the
numbers of Masons have declined. This
number may not be absolute accurate
anymore but in round numbers uh m
masonry in its heyday like when I came
in in the 70s and the 80s and stuff a
million dollars a day they raised in
charity.
Wow.
Million dollars every day.
It's awesome.
Yes. And it went to good works.
Yeah. and Mason's a big huge part of the
Masonic traditions is charity.
Um, and that's the first thing when
you're initiated, one of the first
things you're taught about is the
importance of charity,
taking care of your fellow man.
Um,
you know, the whole idea of brotherhood
and and brotherly love is right at the
cornerstone of the thing, is it? And the
the stuff that's being promulgated
online is total garbage. That's garbage.
That's my sense, too. I think if
anything,
uh, Freemasonry has unfortunately lost a
lot of its vitality. Like, oh, I wish
our leaders were Freemasons.
So, do I I wish they were. I wish they
were.
It's both about
you. Good luck finding anybody in the
Biden administration that's a Freemason.
Totally. Totally. [snorts] Um, and it's
all it's all about sort of
self-ultivation, but in a, you know,
outside of obviously charity and and
generosity and brotherly love, but in a
well-rounded way as well and in a
multid-disiplinary Yeah.
way and in a way that's practical, too.
and so
practical very much the the idea of
Freemasonry is very much about leading a
practical life but
[clears throat and cough] the symbols of
Freemasonry um you know the compass and
the square the plumb bob you know
um the plumb bob like how do masons meet
you've heard of this um saying you know
we conclude a business deal and we just
I do a project for you you hire me
you know
we fulfilled all the terms of the
contract. We're both happy. We end with
a handshake, right? We go, "Are we on
the level? Are we square?" Meaning,
yeah, we're square. We're good, man.
We're both happy.
Both of those are pure Masonic terms,
right? Out of the Masonic philosophy,
you know, are we square? Meaning, you
know,
is is everybody happy with this outcome?
Yeah. We've had a fair exchange. Um,
on the level, how do masons meet? On the
level. So when you go into a lodge, it
doesn't matter
whether you're uh you know a
multi-millionaire
millionaire businessman, corporate head,
a plumber
or carpenter or a famous celebrity. When
you go into that lodge, you're all on
the same level.
Yeah. And I've been in lodges where I'm
sitting where there are retired admirals
of the Navy and illustrious people who
who've been very successful in society,
but the master of the lodge sitting in
the east with the gavel in hand who's
controlling it all might be a carpenter.
And when everybody walked comes in, it
doesn't matter. They pay deference to
the one who's sitting in the east
because he's the one who has just spent
seven years climbing the Masonic ladder
that now qualifies him to sit in the
east and control all the proceedings in
the lodge with his gavvel.
Right. So that's how it works. How do
masons meet on the level? How part on
the square
and
and how act?
Yeah.
By the plum.
Think about a plumb bob. You're holding
a string with a weight. Okay, up. Think
about morally uprightness. Think about
the term rectitude.
See, these are the moral teachings that
are just right at the very core of
Freemasonry. And I've had people argue
with me online say, "Well, you don't
know because you know, you get up to,
you know, you go through up to the 32nd
degree, but then when you get to the
33rd degree, that's when you find out
it's all evil and satanic and all of
that." And I go, "Well, how do you know
that? How do you know?" So, what you're
saying to me, though, is I've been a
Mason for 30 years, 35, 40 years. I've
I've climbed up to the 32nd degree and
all of this time I didn't know that the
third and I've sat in lodge with men
that I highly respect that I know that
are 33rd degrees
that are pillars of their community that
do so much good in the world but somehow
I've gotten up to the 32nd degree and I
don't know that really this 33rd degree
is this evil cabal but you who's
challenged me who don't know nephen
thing about it, the history of it. You
read some online and now you
think you know. And so you're going to
tell me, oh, that that it's a secret
that I don't know that the 33rd is
actually this evil cabal,
but you're so astute. You figured it out
because you spent five minutes looking
at something on the internet. It just
it's so ridiculous. It would be
laughable except for the fact that there
are people out there who are totally
invested in this belief system,
including the dumbass that I was once
partnered with who built Sacred Geometry
International.
Interesting. Well, [laughter]
um, these group, why do these groups
always seem to get persecuted? like
[clears throat] if there is a line back
to the Templars. Well,
you know, I think about the Templar
story and um I believe uh they owned a
lot of the debt. They had kind of an
international banking system and they
owned a lot of the debt of Philip the
Fair, Philip IVth of Spain. And Philip
IV basically slandered them and said
that they were doing they were engaging
in all sorts of, you know, uh, weird
rituals with each other. And uh, in
fact, I think it was they were sort of
dedicating themselves to something
higher. And so they were,
you know, the the rumors were that they
were spitting on the cross and and and
doing stuff like that. And I think in
their mind, this is this is what I read
from Rudolph Steiner, who's this
Austrian philosopher.
They were sort of simulating Peter's
denial. And so it was it was all about
sort of dedication to something beyond
symbology and higher,
but obviously there ways to misinterpret
spitting on the cross. And they all
ended up getting burnt at the stake in
1307. And I don't know how much of that
would have been, you know, you can see
the smear campaigns going on today and
you know that they're BS.
You know, when you see, you know, the
mainstream media closing ranks on Graham
Hancock and calling him a white
supremacist, racist uh promoter of
dangerous conspiracy theories. And if
you know anything at all, you know
that's complete BS.
Yeah.
Right. But the idea is, you know, now
they can't
they'd like to, some of them would
probably like to take and torture
Graham,
but they can't get away with that,
right? Like they could have once upon a
time. But look at this.
Every time if you go through history and
you look at what happens when desperates
and tyrants and dictators take over
nations, one of the first things they'll
do is they'll shut down Masonic lodges.
Yeah,
that's one of the Hitler did it, Mao did
it, Stalin did it. They outlawed
Freemasonry. Now, if Freemasonry was
really this secret cabal of Satan
worshiping global controllers, why would
that be? Why would every dictator then
shut down a Masonic lodge? Right.
The other thing I like to point out is
of American presidents, 14 of them have
been uh master masons. 14. Yeah. 14.
But how many have been episcipalians?
I make that point. 23. [laughter]
That's exactly the point I'm I'm making.
23 of them have been Episcopalians.
So you could make exactly the same kind
of argument with with just as much
credibility that it's the Episcopalians
who are the secret puppet masters of the
globe. See, it's that ridiculous,
right? Um
do you think that um it was rumored that
when Jacqu de Mole who is the last
grandmaster of the Templars was
persecuted that he had sort of a a
theory of how the world worked that uh
might have been somewhat subversive to
like the setting authorities
because because I do think that the
Templars were custodians of of advanced
knowledge
and they were also supposed to have you
know protected maybe a a bloodline of
Christ. This is another possibility.
This leads us straight into the whole uh
tradition of the of the Holy Grail.
Yeah. So, what do you think the Holy
Grail is the human heart or do you think
it's something physical and real?
I think it's a very complex it's an
image for a very complex technology of
restoration of regeneration of
rejuvenation
and so on. And that technology can be
applied from an individual
all the way up to uh a nation all the
way up to the planet.
And how do you what's how do you even
start to think about the Holy Grail
which you know feels like an impossible
to even conceive of?
Well, you do what I did. I spent like a
year or two just diving head first into
the you know late 12th early 13th
century grail romances from Craig John
Detois to Robert Deborah Ron to um
from von Ashenbach to Parival. Exactly.
That's what I did.
So [laughter]
that's your prescription to people out
there is headlong into the 12th and 13th
century.
That's it.
Easy. [clears throat]
Yeah.
Or, you know, uh maybe I'll, you know,
part of what I'm trying to do is to
provide shortcuts for people.
Yeah.
You know, I have been a student of these
things since I was in high school in the
late 60s. So, I've got, you know, half a
century. And, you know, you asked like,
you know, to me it's just I don't know.
It's just natural. I I learn things. I
tend to retain. I have good retention.
You have amazing retention. Like as good
as anybody I know. It's like it's an
idetic memory. It's a
I've been told it's an idetic memory.
That's I I'm not definitely not
photographic memory. Thank God. I don't
think I'd want to be photographic
memory, but idetic is that um yeah, I
have good retention. I have a great what
I have is a a welldeveloped
storage system and a good retrieval
system.
Yeah. Well, although my retrieval system
sometimes lapses and I know that the
information is there, I just can't get
the drawer open, you know, and then
later it'll pop open all by itself and I
go, "Oh, okay. There we go. Okay. Yeah.
See, there's my file on the holy grail.
Let's see who said what." But, um, but
yeah, see, I think that the mind is
just, you know, it's it's the same way
as any organ of your body. If you use
it, it gets stronger, more efficient.
If you don't use it, Yeah. people tend
to they get out of school and they they
quit using their brain and they just
instead of getting smarter through their
life they just get dumber.
I agree. I also think that the mind
though needs a strong constitution
behind it. I think the mind is
pre-leveraged by um the stomach and by
other other organs in the body.
And if if if any of those are sort of
out of line um the mind can often it
could be very powerful but if it's not
well integrated
that's like like right now my big
challenge is getting back you know a
decade of the last decade I've had a
pretty tough time in some respects. Um
injuries
injuries.
Sorry to hear that. Oh well, you know,
it's natural.
Yeah.
And you know, it's main part of being in
a human body and doing the kind of work
I've done.
You know, it was between, you know,
construction work and extreme type
sports things. You know, you don't come
through that unscathed. And I wouldn't
trade it other than,
you know, I've got issues that have have
slowed me down and because of that, it's
shifted my metabolism. But I have the
resources now that I didn't have a few
years ago. You know, my business was
going like gang busters when the um when
the real estate bubble popped
in 2009 2010 and I had
went from pretty good income to like
very large debts within one year
and the dissolution of my company.
Um [clears throat] so I realized then
that that you know can have a big effect
on you.
Yeah. Yeah. You know, it really, you
know, it it sent me reeling. Um,
created a lot of stress.
Absolutely.
Stress.
And stress can actually be a killer.
Oh, it's really bad.
It is. So, I've tried to do things now
to de-stress my life. And,
you know, it's working. I had a few
years spell there where it was a
struggle, but I thought, okay, I got to
keep my eye on the the prize here. I've
got to keep moving. Um,
yeah.
And I got through it. Uh but now I've
got residual effects that I'm dealing
with. But
you know I've got
say la
the l last few years you know my my
access to resources has increased
enormously as a result of what I've been
doing. So I'm in a very position now to
pretty much regenerate.
May speaking of which and at the risk of
displaying extreme hubris in this
question, but also this sort of is
emblematic of what I do with you all the
time. You are a man of uh you know
helping other people with shortcuts.
What is your shortcut to the Holy Grail?
Oh, my shortcut for the Holy Grail would
be that I have
well, I've put together a whole
presentation
where I break it down. I get into the
authors and I analyze the symbolism.
Yeah.
And I
Do you think it's a physical thing or
[clears throat] do you think it is
I think I'll put it this way. I think
it's a technology.
It's a It's a tech. Now we talked about
within the human body or outside of it
or
anything that's living.
Interesting.
Yeah. It's it's a technology of
regeneration
sort of regeneration.
Interesting.
Yeah. So for a debilitated body it can
regenerate. For a debilitated wasteland.
Does it explain sort of spontaneous
remissions and healings and that sort of
thing?
Well, in a sense perhaps yes. But I
think that understanding the
applications of the technology
may appear to be spontaneous,
but I mean it just it there's a very
interesting overlaps between the Grail
stories, the Grail traditions and
alchemy.
The Grail basically is like the
counterpart to the philosopher stone.
The philosopher stone, you know, is
regenerative,
right? One of the things that conver
confers longevity. Well, so does the
grail, right? M
there's uh and in my presentations and
in the things that I do publicly
in lectures and classes in private
meetings and classes and what I will be
doing in the content that I'll be
creating over the next year or two I'm
going to be incrementally taking pieces
of this information and disclosing it as
much as possible. Do you think that
religion has a sort of protoarchitecture
and that uh you know there are
connections between Dionis and and Jesus
and Diane rituals and Jesus
and so you do?
Yes I do. I I you know I look at the
spiritual tradition almost as being like
like a great underground subterranean
river which periodically
emerges and breaks through the surface
and flows over the surface and it waters
the world. It it it brings the the
subterranean minerals and the and the
life replenishing waters to the world.
It might be 200 years of the magnificent
cathedral building which coincided with
the the the the disclosure of the grail
romances to the world which coincided
with the trouidors using their their
their spiritual songs and poetry to
carry information sacred information
around the world and civilization. uh
coincided with the first schools of
Cababala that were established in Spain.
Uh
corresponded to the rise of Catherism,
of Templarism, of the Gnostic building
tradition and the building of the
magnificent cathedrals in Europe, the
great
architecture of Southeast Asia, the
final wave of monumental earthworks in
North America,
etc. Something came out. Something
emerged and it watered the spiritual
fertility of the planet and then it went
back underground.
Do you think that we are living in
another such age? So Carl
[clears throat] Jasper is the German
philosopher had a term called axial age
and that was like a time when past
meaning structures were sort of sloed
off and you'd get these new sort of
revelations. I think he used it to
describe uh the 8th century BC to the
3rd century BC. You had Confucious and
Lu and uh uh who else would you have had
at that time? You know, Plato and
Socrates and Aristotle.
They were a little later, but yeah,
during that period of time, I well, I
think there are times where, you know,
you do need new forms. Uh it it's time
changes. You know, the the planet
changes, the planet that we inhabit is
evolving,
right?
um we have to evolve along with it. But
at the same time, in order to maximize
the probabilities of successful
successful transformations going into
the future, we have to keep a a uh a
viable vigorous pipeline to our own past
because there are traditions I think
that have woven their way through the
whole history of civilization. And again
using that analogy of an underground
stream emerging from time to time
watering the the the the meadows,
watering the valley and then life and
civilization is uh you know abundant and
prolific and then it goes back and then
after a period of time the things are
forgotten. You know there's kind of a
drought. We have been in sort of a
drought.
Yeah. in a sense of of spiritual wisdom
and knowledge. And now we're at a point
where I think the pieces are aligned
where if there's a even a small group of
people that understand these traditions
and the power of these traditions that
can take us back to a clearer and deeper
understanding of our own origins, we'll
have a much better framework for
understanding the potential of our
future. And and it's it's it's it's
I it is incumbent upon us now that those
of us who are making these connections
and realizing this that we do whatever
is necessary to turn this tide that's
leading us into Armageddon.
Absolutely. Well, absolutely. there's
there's external knowledge um and then
in some ways external knowledge has a
limit and there's also sort of internal
latent or dormant knowledge that can be
somewhat activated
and so how do you mix those two because
you seem to be a person who's filled
with external knowledge and yet some of
this stuff feels somewhat intuitive as
well and maybe maybe revelatory
one of my mentors the late Keith Kitlo
used to say the inner and the outer are
reflections of one another and if If you
keep that in mind and if you remember
that then you realize that that the
things we do externally
can be can be ritualized
can be symbolized and have corresponding
effects within the inner domain and vice
versa
vice versa. So, as we go into
exploration of our own consciousness and
our own subconsciousness, that leads us
right back into the entire racial story
of our species on this planet. If we
recognize that, we can begin to see that
all of the external world is really a
sacred symbol.
And vice versa. See, it works both ways.
The inner is a reflection of the outer.
So we use the inner to learn more about
the world and how it works and
understand that the world is this
externalization of our own
consciousness.
And I think that's the approach and and
we have to look at the world as a sacred
place.
So how do you because to me it's
partially like some sort of holograph
and I'll I'll talk to like you know a
boomer crystal healer and they'll say
it's it's all you know an emanation from
what's inside. the only thing that
matters is, you know, interiority and
and being self-aligned.
And then I'll speak to, you know, some
industrialist and they have no internal
spiritual life and, you know, they're
complete materialist reductionist and
neither model is very charismatic to me.
This is exactly my perspective.
Okay. So, how do you uh reconcile those
two things?
Well, like where I said, I mean, you you
you begin to look at at the things in
the external world. You begin to look
for the sacredness and the symbology of
the things in the world around you.
Yes. But not everything is a symbol.
You're not looking in the book The
Alchemist where everything is like I'm
you're wearing green and green's my
favorite color so it's a great day, you
know, like that's too much. There's too
much. But then there's sometimes it does
sometimes you are experiencing a real
synchronicity that is some you know
there's some esoteric underpinning and
you're experienc the exoteric layer and
that's a really exciting almost
recognition of some primordial soul
knowledge in the real world and that's
crazy. One of the things that I've been
doing recently is I did a um I did a a
presentation on Halloween to show the
sacred origins of Halloween,
the symbolical origins. And then I did
one on
winter solstice, Christmas, and that's
the the the deep symbolical connotations
of that going back transculturally
way back into the past. I'm going to do
another one uh Easter. I'm going to do
up in Nashville.
Rebirth.
Nashville. Am I going to No, no, no.
It's out in Arizona near Sedona.
Um we're going to be doing Easter kind
of an Easter um recognition and coupled
with that will be a lot of material on
the Holy Grail
and and with Easter that sort of matches
like this tale of Pepan's quest to the
underworld.
Yes, very much.
You want very much. Yeah. the idea of
the the death and resurrection of the
god
of the of the the royal personage, you
know, the death and resurrection of the
king or the queen.
Yeah. The crucifixion, you know, took
place. Yeah. Easter is a recognition of
the crucifixion. The whole crucifixion
story is a Christian Christianization of
the whole grail mythos.
Yeah. because it it it very much the
whole idea of the chalice is that Joseph
of Arythea who took the body of Christ
off the cross which is all symbolical.
Um, I'm not I'm not saying that there
wasn't really an actual crucifixion that
happened, but even if there was, it
doesn't negate the possibility that it
was also symbolical. And I think that
maybe we to understand it we have to
look at it in that um biodal
fact that it was both symbolical that it
was a a a recapitulation of the ancient
mystery play which was the death and
resurrection of nature, the death and
resurrection of the royal personage, the
death and resurrection of the world
itself,
right? The death and resurrection of
civilization. All of these things on
these levels. Last time I was with you,
we did a you did a private presentation
for me after our on air conversation
where you presented this whole case for
Jesus having not actually died. And you
talk about the hissop as this actual
sedative that he almost used to trick uh
the governor at the time, the Roman
governor Pilot who poked him with a
stick and he was sort of like
incapacitated but he was actually alive
and he was sort of resuscitated by these
herbs of Joseph of Arya. Do you sort of
stand by that thesis?
Uh
first of all,
am I making you uncomfortable right now?
No, [laughter] it was not Pontius Pilate
poking him with a stick. It was It was
the centurion with the lance.
Oh, it wasn't Pilot.
No, it wasn't Pilot himself. He said
Pilot was the one who said, "Who are
you?" And he said, "I'm the king of the
Jew." Or he said, "You you said you're
the king of the Jews." You said that. I
didn't say that.
Right. That's Yes.
He was the governor.
Pontius Pilate was the governor. Yes.
Okay. So,
the centurion went and prodded Jesus to
see if there was any response to know if
he was still alive. M
now I think what I would rather do is I
am planning to put a lot of this out
there at some point uh probably early
next year.
Threads of this have been around for a
long time. This is nothing new. It's no
no
Brian Morescu believes this as well.
He's the author of the immortality key.
Yeah.
And he he believes that maybe this was
some sort of mystery ritual where like
you know you have the the guy with the
water jug or whatever who's coordinating
this. Yes.
This whole the whole last supper feels
very coordinated, right?
Yes, it does.
And they're sitting and you know, you
have the 12 disciples and then he drinks
this this or whatever this drink
and it maybe it's similar to the kekon
in the Elucinian mystery rituals. Martin
Luther King actually wrote a very
interesting essay called the pagan
continuity hypothesis about uh basically
you know or was about the pagan
continuity hypothesis you know pagan and
and and Greek influence on early
Christianity
and so like maybe these mystery rituals
you know took place. Oh yeah. I I mean
the the the
archetype of the death and resurrection
of the divine king is precedes
Christianity by millennia.
Um and to me, you know, that's and
again, I'm not going to make any final
definitive statements. I [clears throat]
think we need to be open to well, like
we talked about earlier, outrageous
ideas. And one outrageous idea might be
that Jesus didn't die on the cross, like
you said, and that there was a lot more
to the story going on behind the scenes.
And I think that one could make a
plausible case for that um just by
reference to some of the things you just
named. And it's it's very instructive.
If you go through um the gospels and you
pick out the details, you can make a
case that there is definitely something
going on behind the scenes and this
thing was that it was the whole ritual
was pre-planned for some reason. Okay.
Now that what that reason would be that
would be speculative.
There was like an upstairs and a
downstairs as well, right? In this
house.
Yes. the last supper was
and of course you know then that brings
us into the realm of the grail
because the chalice from which they all
drank at the last supper that is the
grail. Yeah. And then that was the
chalice that Joseph of Arythea collected
the blood of Christ when he was removing
him from the cross. And it was sealed in
the form of a cyoreium and that was
transferred to the uh to England. And
when Joseph of Arythea arrived in
England, he met up with Arvaros, the the
pagan chieftain, who then granted him
120 hides of land as the sacred precinct
where he would establish the first
Christian church according to legend.
And so there's a whole story there that
that brings the Grail mythos into this
whole question. And then you know then
what happens is it gets convoluted there
because we're getting as soon as we get
into the the realm of the grail now
we're in this realm that's very much
like trying to make sense out of a
dream.
Do you think that uh Jesus had a
bloodline and he had kids?
Well then that's see that's one of the
the hypotheses that if he did survive he
could have generated a bloodline. And
again, there's circumstantial evidence
that points in that direction, but we
don't have what could qualify in my mind
as definitive.
What's the circumstantial evidence?
Well, traditions like particularly the
origin of the Maravvenian king line in
France possibly. I mean, because that
was part of the
the lore was that he escaped to the
forest in France, right, with Mary Mary
Magdalene.
I'm not familiar with that. Okay.
Now, Mary Magdalene, according to some
traditions, did travel with Joseph of
Arythea, and she disembarked at the
place that is now Marseilles.
Uhhuh.
And I mean, Marseilles is named after
Mary. Okay. That's where it gets its
name.
And so, so, okay, these bloodlines. So,
you know, the kings of France, what what
other possible, you know, evidence do we
have or or just lore, mythology do we
have around this? Well, most of it that
I know of is is mostly like traditions,
legends, hearsay, that kind of stuff.
Okay.
I don't know, you know. Well, there is a
possible way that we could determine or
or now that is
gets us to the shroud of Turin.
Yeah, I was just gonna That's crazy
you're bringing that up. I was just
going to ask you about the shroud of
turn. Can you tell the audience what the
shroud of turn is? Well, it's a it's a
appears to be a burial cloth with an
image of a man on it. And a man looks
like he's been tortured. And all of the
wounds are 100% consistent with the
wounds described in the passion in the
in the gospels, you know, the the the um
the nails through the wrists, the crown
of thorns, the piercing of the side, the
whipping of the back, all of that. the
holes in the in the feet. What was
interesting about the the the um the uh
shroud is that you know it was
originally you know it first showed up
in history with the nephew of I think it
was Jeffrey Desarie who was the last
grandmaster of the Templars. No, Jacqu
de Mole was but Jeffrey Desar was his
associate.
Who? What?
They were associate. Jo de Mole was the
last Grandmaster of the Templars,
I think. Well, yeah, he was the last.
Well, so Jaffrey Desarie was the second
second to last. Yeah.
Yeah. Okay, got it. Um, so it was his
nephew that had the shroud
in his possession. And I'm a little
vague on how that it ended up in the in
the uh in Turin, but it went through a
succession of owners and it finally
ended up in Turin and where it still is
in the repository there.
Wasn't it studied by NASA like a piece
of the fabric and it was sort of
Well, it's been studied by a group of
scientists several times since they
finally
and they they said they debunked it or
whatever. They said you know so but you
have some interesting takes on this
right about its actual veracity.
Yes I again no definitive final proof
but I think we can show where the
debunking was actually not a debunking
how where
at least the first the early ones in the
in the 80s when they first did the the
um the analysis. Now, there have been
several things that have been done,
scientific studies that have been done
since that first one that was approved
by the Vatican. I'm not up to speed on
what the results of those were, but it
does appear that they contradicted some
of the the debunking claims. Um, but
going through the debunking cla claims,
I could actually I think show you where
I think um the debunking went wrong. I
couldn't do that without preparation. I
mean, because I haven't really looked at
the Turin Shroud thing for at least 10
years, but um and I know there's been
some additional studies on it, which I
haven't followed up on, but I have a
very I have a pretty comprehensive mass
of material on the shroud and the
testing that was done in the 80s and the
early 90s. So, maybe sometime we could
do a a uh an interview based pretty much
on that.
That would be great. But it it
but but maybe give us a little teaser
on, you know, where the conventional
debunks were wrong.
For one thing, it came in which part of
the shroud did they actually test?
Because
there were several repair jobs that were
done to it. And so you have se several
pieces of cloth that were much younger
than the original piece of cloth.
So if you test that instead of the
original piece of cloth, obviously
you're going to get a much younger date.
Interesting. And so why do you think
there was some sort of incentive to
debunk this thing? You think they were
bad faith actors? What? And so what what
is that to kind of
because whoever whoever's the image was
and of course the claim is that it was
painted on there by an artist and and
and I kind of don't like to put out
vague generalities without getting into
the precise specifics because that's how
science works. You can't just say,
"Well, this may have happened, that may
have happened." You have to actually be
precise and you have to come up with
definitive evidence and lay out your
your your chain of reasoning and and the
evidentiary support for that chain of
reasoning which in a casual conversation
obviously we don't do like if we were
going to if we were going to do a a
discussion about the shroud I would
review all of my notes and we would have
some graphics some images to look at and
so on. But let me put it this way. I
think it boils down to this. If that was
not a painting, and I think that we can
make a very strong case that it was not
painted on there by an artist. Um, if it
is some kind of a photographic image,
you know, it's a negative, right? You
knew that. So
if that was taken over on a a a man
wrapped in a shroud, the image of the
man in the shroud, even though all of
the wounds are consistent with the
biblical description of the wounds of
Christ, the man in the shroud was not a
corpse.
Wow.
The man in the shroud was living.
How do you know that? Well, several
reasons. The main reason is this.
This is how the arms were folded. Right
now, if you got a corpse laying supine
horizontal
and there's no heartbeat,
all of the blood pulls up in the bottom
of the of the body. It doesn't flow out.
Right? the highest points of the wrists,
blood has been flowing out the feet. The
blood is flowing. You can tell from the
shroud that the blood from the wounds
was flowing,
which means that the heart was pumping,
which means that the individual was not
a corpse, but a living body. There's
also evidence in the original Greek of
the scriptural evidence itself in the
words that are being used to describe
and I'm not going to get into that right
now, but I would want to have those
words in front of me and it show you
then um
the meaning of the these words that are
used which imply again the same thing
that this was a living
being, a living man. But in the
Christianized version, Joseph of
Maraththea took the the grail cup, which
was the cup used at the last supper,
right, by Christ and the disciples, and
from the wound in Christ's side, he
caught the blood and the water issuing
forth, sealed that into as a cyoreium
with a with a cover on it, and then
according to legend transported that to
England where he met up with the pagan
chieftain Arveragos.
who bequeathed to Joseph and his 12
followers or disciples
120 um hides of land.
And a hide of land is 120 acres
traditionally in Britain. And so and
that was established to be the sacred
precinct.
At the center of the pre sacred
precinct, again according to legend, a
small circular church was built that was
just under 40t in diameter and it was
built out of waddles which were sort of
um almost like woody [clears throat]
vines or something. So it was built
[cough] and that that chapel was
maintained for a long time and then
eventually fell into ruin as was
replaced by another circular chapel that
maintained the dimensions of the
original and that eventually decayed and
then in the 10th century I believe it
was an abbey was built there where the
width of the abbey was the same as the
diameter of the original circular chapel
that fell into ruin and it was replaced
by Glastonberry Abbey. There was a
chapel built on the uh west end of
of uh Glastonberry Abbey dedicated to
St. Mary. Now whether that was Mary
Magdalene or the Virgin Mary
could be either one. It's called St.
Mary's Chapel. Its width of 39.6 6 feet
it is said
preserves the diameter of the original
chapel. Now the 12 hides of 120 acres
each that meant that the sacred precinct
was440
acres and 1440 is the one of the key
numbers in the whole sacred cannon of
numerical cosmology. You know there was
144 cubits in the wall
the circular wall around the holy city.
There was 144,000
who were the redeemed of the earth,
which I take to be
Isn't that the latitude of the pyramids,
too?
I think the latitude of the pyramids is
um
close to 30°.
Okay, never mind.
Yeah. Um so I think that the 144,000
could refer to the 144,000
that are going to save this planet from
self-destruction. Mhm.
And if we can get 144,000 of us that are
committed to
to that work, which is the great part of
the great work of our time, we will be
able to have a future
without being sent back to the dark ages
and struggling to survive for another
few millennia, man.
Yeah,
you'll be in that. So, I want to shift
gears to Atlantis. The story of Atlantis
uh came from Solon. Mhm.
Uh who was Plato's [clears throat] great
uncle? Is that right? Or
great-grandfather.
I think great uncle. I mean in the
lineage uh I believe it was um Solon to
Dropus to Critius the Elder to Critius
the Younger who then presented the story
at the Socratic forum.
At the Socratic in Athens
and so and Solon [snorts]
got it from Egyptian priests and
Sius I think was the name. Was it
Crantor who gave the name? I don't
remember but yeah
and there's a a guy uh named Jimmy
Corsetti who um was just on Rogan and he
he and you know Jimmy
met important haven't met him personally
but we've had some great interaction
over um you know digital
digital things. Yeah. And so he's
presented a theory that uh maybe
Atlantis existed in the the richot
territory
of Moritania
of Moritania in Africa. And you I know
I've talked to you about this many times
for for years have a different theory
about maybe uh an area in the
Mid-Atlantic ridge that is currently
underwater. And I I still hold to that
and I you know I've looked at Jimmy's
stuff and here's what I would say about
Jimmy's stuff is that he's done some
really interesting work there with the
recap structure. There are some some
some parallels that are quite striking.
However, when you break it down and take
Plato's detailed accounts, I don't think
it applies to the recat structure. And
in my presentation that I've done um
again that people can get online, I
forgot what we're charging for it. It's
pretty affordable, but they can download
like an eight or nine hour three
two-part three-part lecture where I
break it all down. And I do devote like
probably an hour anyway to an analysis
of the recap rehat structure. I think
it's rec. Um but um what I do say is
that according to again in my lecture
what I do is I go okay what if we just
took Plato's details literally
do they hold up under what we now know
about oceanography geology marine
geology astronomy geography etc
does it hold up is there consistency
there
and I bred a lot of books on Atlantis
and the many places it's been proposed.
Um, and in every single case, you have
to change the details of Plato's
account. Let's say that you accept the
island of Terara and the Santorini
eruption was the story behind Atlantis.
Well, this happened 900 years before
Plato. So, the assumption is as well
Plato made a mistake by a whole order of
magnitude in dating.
you have to change something. You, you
know, it's been proposed to be, um,
southern England, uh, Cuba, uh, Turkey,
Antarctica,
the list goes on and on.
North America.
North America. Yes. Now,
Graham Hancock sort of implied that in
America before.
Well, here's what I would say. Mhm.
If we take Plato's account as being
legitimate to some extent, he's
describing an a midatlantic island-based
empire with sophisticated maritime and
navigational skills.
Well, right there you have the the
possibility of there being colonies all
over the damn place.
Northwestern Africa would seem like a
very obvious place
to have outliers to have colonies. So,
but why do you think why is it your base
case that it is there in the center of
the Atlantic and not
well that's what I get in Yeah. And
that's why it took me eight or nine
hours to explain.
Turn that into two minutes, Randall.
Because it during an ice age world that
was of one of the most favorable places
on the planet for
uh a civilization to evolve. That's why
for many reasons, but
you know, our good friend, our dear
friend Rob Reinhardt that recently
visited Atlanta, who
you know, I was hoping maybe we could
persuade him to talk a little bit about,
but I don't think he wants to. So, we're
not going to go impose upon Rob at this
time. Um,
what we'll do is we'll just talk about
him as if he wasn't sitting right over
there.
I like that. Let's do it.
I actually don't like Rob. He's got you.
Oh [laughter]
Well, uh,
so anyways,
I was really excited to hear that our
mutual friend Rob recently
visited the Azors.
Yeah. And I think the implication of
that is Rob is now going to be integral
to this
Azor expedition, Azor tour that has kind
of been sort of germinating for a couple
of years now.
Let's go.
Is that possible, Rob? All right. He's
not going to speak, but he Everybody, he
is nodding his head.
He's nodding his head. Well, yeah, we
should we should I would love to go we
should do a follow-up where we go to the
Azor. That sounds great. Well,
so it was sort of climate wise it was
just optimal. That's the reason that you
think it's there. Are there any?
Oh, yeah. Multiple reasons it was.
So that's number one. Give me the super
highlevel summary. I know it's annoying
because you have so much unique facts in
your head. Super high level. It is uh
from a climate perspective, it's
optimal. What else? Number one. Number
two. Well, I mean, okay, so what I talk
about in the in the in the eight or nine
hours is how isoatic adjustment shows
that that a large port that that what
we're seeing now, those islands are the
tops of mountains,
sunk in mountains.
Interesting.
And I get into the I get into the
evidence for that. I mean, I show that,
you know, the the dredging of the ocean
floor, the core samples, the findings,
the of submerged shorelines and things.
There's a very strong case
because the map looked entirely
different.
Yeah.
It's like the map of Piri Race where you
have the sort of uh tropical parts of
Antarctica that are shown uh you know at
the top.
Yeah.
The Rontius Phineas that shows parts of
Antarctica. Yeah. I mean, and Graham
makes the case that's never been
refuted, which is that the this
knowledge of geography comes from some
past
culture that had had the ability to
navigate the world.
Okay? So, optimal climate for living,
number one. Number two,
well, now you've got
you're strategically poised where you've
got access to Africa, Europe, North
America, and South America.
So, all the land masses. So now if
you're interacting with people,
resources, all of these kinds of things,
you're you're you're strategically
placed where you've got fairly regular
access. I mean, literally, it took what
Columbus 6 weeks to sail.
Yeah.
All right. That means that if you're
poised on a large island or island
complex in the Mid-Atlantic, you're
three weeks of sailing your to Africa
and Europe, three weeks of sailing to
North and South America.
Yep. And now you've got access to all of
those resources.
It's pretty awesome.
Yeah. It seems to me that for multiple
reasons that would have been a a an
ideal place for a civilization to evolve
when sea levels were lowered by 400 ft
and the mid-Atlantic ridge was probably
1,000 to 2,000 ft higher than it is now.
A lot of esoteric traditions talk about
involution as opposed to evolution. And
there are rumors that maybe in the past
um in in past civilizations uh homminids
have been giant and we've found sort of
possibly giant bones. Graham Hancock has
talked about this.
Yeah.
What say you?
Well, I would say that I've never seen a
giant skeleton myself, but I've I've
taken some pretty deep dives into some
of the actually archival stuff. You
know, the Emory Library where I used to
do a lot of research has an incredible
collection of 19th century writing,
state archives and and records of, you
know, early archae Bureau of the
American Ethnological Society, the early
Smithsonian papers. There's an
incredible wealth of stuff in there. And
and in fact in one of my presentations
which I've not yet presented in a public
forum uh I've pulled a lot of that stuff
together. The excavations particularly
associated with the monumental
earthworks giant skeletons. Those
accounts are repeated over and over and
over again that in the excavation
there's a giant skeleton dug up
sometimes seven feet sometimes eight
sometimes even nine feet in height. Now
[clears throat] these accounts of course
the skeptics say all these were just
hoaxes and made up and you know yeah
maybe in some cases yes but look there
was no internet so for somebody to get
you know 10,000 likes if they went and
said that they discovered a you know
it's going to be Dr. so and so and
Reverend so and so that's out there
excavating with with a group of local
towns people witnessing the excavation
and they dig up an 8ft skeleton.
I'm just not buying that you can just
dismiss that and throw it out of hand
with
a hoax. Well, if you think about the
trajectory of mankind now, it feels like
we're moving from, you know, if we were
wolves in the past, we're turning into
dogs
and we're being domesticated and you
sperm count or testosterone. So on a
human kind of body hormonal level and
then and then probably size of body as
well. It's like this has become
vestigial. We're not hunter gatherers
anymore. You're not that's not being
selected for [clears throat]
anymore. And so do you think yeah I mean
you think about sort of these these
possible large homminid creatures in the
past and then there are a lot of
traditions that talk about demigods
titans
the you know in the book of Enoch you
had the watchers that you know mated
there were giants in the earth in those
days
giants in the earth do do you ascribe to
possibly uh you know any of the theories
that ancient alien astronauts might have
come down co-mated with mankind and we
are their descendants.
Uh that's kind of a sticky question. Um
well, let me just say I think about
every human and there's something very
depraved about them.
You know, it's like we're very we're
very apelike in some ways and then we do
have sort of this divine spark in other
ways. We we feel wholly separate from
the rest of the animal kingdom and yet
also sort of a part of it. And so I've
wondered about, you know, this theory as
a possible way to explain it
perhaps. You know, I'm I'm very
open-minded. I I certainly don't sit
here and claim I've got final answers on
all of this stuff. I you know I don't
know if I can't even say that I wish I
did because half the fun of life is
figuring this stuff out. The journey of
discovery the mystery. Um but I do think
that as you go along and you you you
think about this, you study, you learn,
you meditate, you contemplate,
you do discover answers to some of the
questions. You know there are there are
mysteries and then there are greater
mysteries and lesser mysteries. The
ultimate mystery I don't know I don't
you know I I tend to be agnostic about
that. I will say in a more pragmatic
sense though that when we go back to the
late ice age when we go back to the late
plea scene I mean my god look the
imperial mammoth stood 16 feet tall at
the shoulder. The American place to seen
lion was the size of a horse, you know.
Um, gipadons were armadillos the size of
Volkswagen beetle cars um of golf carts,
you know. I mean, the list goes on. The
the the the giant cave bear, the Ursa
Spalius, the bear that stood six feet
tall at the shoulder and 12 feet tall
when it stood up on its hind legs. There
were giants, right? If there were all of
these giant the Irish elk with 10 and 12
foot antler spans for Christ's sakes 8
foot tall at the church. Can you imagine
encountering one of those things? Talk
about an impressive beast there. But if
you had all of these mamalian megapa
oversized compared to today,
[clears throat and cough]
why not people?
Well, also yeah, how would you survive
in that context if you weren't megaized?
You know, you had to be awful smart.
You had to be awful smart. And then you
have all this megalithic architecture
that 10 20 30 ton
and and and I think that that gets us
into the technological discussion. And
because of the the things that I've been
learning lately, I think I'm honing in
on what that technology was that they
were using. And we could do another
discussion on that. It to attempt to do
that now would be premature. Um because
there's still holes in my game and I
don't necessarily have all the pieces
together. But my instincts tell me that
yeah, we have to be looking at these
plasmoid technologies could provide the
uh the answer to things like levitation
of
large stones.
It's interesting. I mean, an area I've
always been interested in is this study
of parasychology,
which is, you know, uh the idea that
there's some sort of mind over matter
effect. And to be honest, it's it's a
very poorly assembled group of people
and and work. It's often not rigorous
and it was definitely marginalized and
it was chronically sort of underfunded
and didn't really go anywhere and there
were sort of scaling problems to it. it
was hard to sort of instrumentalize
and yet if you look at some of those you
know albeit somewhat smallcale studies
I'm convinced if you look at the actual
data that there is a weak mind over
matter effect
and uh [clears throat] the ability to
cultivate that maybe uh you know is that
that that that's an interesting question
can that be cultivated and there
biblical references to to things like
that you know maybe Jesus was the
ultimate par parasychology ology
practitioner. Um,
have you ever had a what you would think
of as a parasychological experience?
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, I have.
Something you talk about or
Yeah, I've had many. Well,
I haven't had many. I've had a few.
Well, parasychological. I mean, I' i've
seen UFOs. Okay. So, I I don't know if
that's par I I think that
it could be. I I think
on one level maybe there is a
parasychological component to the UFO
phenomenon.
I think I think there absolutely is.
But then um as far as like seeing you
know something levitate or something you
know like you know engaging in
telekinetic powers or
I've had some weird Okay. The Yes. The
parasychological stuff I've experienced
is
calling things very early like
predicting things in bizarre ways. Not
even coming from my conscious
intellectual mind, but it's like it gets
zapped into me and I I I experienced
like a premonition or something. Yeah.
Which I think a lot of people have
experienced.
Yes, I I have too. I I've had a few
things that have been, you know, you
could dismiss them as coincidence. I
think when I was about n 18 or 19, my
best friend from high school that I
worked with and his older brother
um were out somewhere and I was home
sleeping and I had this intense dream
that they were in trouble and got busted
to the point where it woke me up and it
was about 2:00 a.m.
And the next morning I go to call my
friend and I couldn't get a hold of
them. And it turns out that at 2 am him
and his brother got busted for dope and
they were sitting in jail.
Now, how the hell that always struck me?
That was bizarre.
Yeah.
That I actually had this dream.
It woke me up and then I Oh, that was
just a dream. I went back to sleep and
then the next day I find out that
literally right around the time I had
that dream and woke up, they had gotten
pulled over and got busted for dope.
Well, it's interesting. Scientists are
now saying that quantum computers can
send information back in time. And we
know that there's
temporal non-locality in entanglement.
You know, if you have photon A and
photon B, if you measure photon A in the
future, it affects photon B in the past,
which is pretty uh awesome and uh and
and interesting. And so maybe um you
know there's this concept of the long
body and uh you know we experience
anesis when we're ported into the
limited prism of our physical body
and maybe we can glitch into the long
body and access our
almost it's almost like prememory our
future cognitive knowledge our future
state um through some sort of quantum
system
which is very interesting and you know
people have tried to find, you know, uh,
literal physical analoges or physical
explanations for what could be that
quantum sensor. And there's a guy named
Steuart Hammerov who thinks that it's
the microtubules in the brain. And I
don't know if that's exactly right, but
that could explain some of this sort of
the the premonition stuff.
I I think that's I I would agree with
that. You know,
to me, it's obvious that the human brain
and body is not a classical computer.
and people like Turring who've suggested
that in the past. I think you're sending
people into a culde-sac with this whole
AI thing.
This leads me into, you know, the whole
concept of quantum entanglement that
somehow there is this something that,
you know, there's some level that
transcends time and space as we know it.
And interestingly, this seems to be one
of the implications that is coming out
of plasma physics when you're dealing
with,
you know, things on the atomic and
subatomic level.
And [clears throat] this is something
I'm, you know, very much in the infancy
of learning about. Um, but you I showed
you the slideshow that I put 240 slides
over the last three months to help me
well, it's doing two things. one, it's
it served to to uh for me to learn about
the system, the the the the methodology,
the philosophy, the ideas, but it's also
going to be used to present by um by the
leading scientists of this system to to
various entities around the world that
have already shown an interest in
implementing the technology. Do you
think that the military-industrial
complex is hiding uh any knowledge
around fundamental parasychology? And
the the reason I ask
probably
the reason I the reason I ask is because
Ben Rich [snorts] who was the head of
Lockheed Skunkworks on his deathbed said
we have the the ability to go to the
stars whenever we want and we've built
it. And a journalist asked him, "Well,
how do we do that?" And he goes, "Well,
have you heard of ESP?" And the
journalist goes, "Yes." And then he
goes, "Well, that's how." And then um
there's a guy named Bob John who was a
plasma physicist who worked at Boeing
who then went on to run the Princeton
pair lab the parasychology lab. And so I
think about that you know connection as
well you know where he's working at
Boeing and then he he and on plasma and
then he
goes on uh to work on sort of
parasychology and I wonder if there is
an interesting connection there. And I
think about the modern UFO story and
it's usually trying to push people away
from thinking about parasychology and
towards more kind of nuts and bolts
materialist reduction
reductionist explanations of how the
craft works. And in fact a lot of people
say when the crafts crash there's
nothing inside the craft. So um there
there must be an interface between the
mind of the occupants of the craft and
the craft itself. And so it has to be
somewhat parasychological from that
perspective. I think it's
parasychological from the viewer's
perspective of the craft as well.
And it it feels like that's the thing
that's been stigmatized and
marginalized. Um you know, you don't
want you don't want people thinking
about parasychology. You'd rather them
think about, you know, um speed of light
limits and and right physics,
[clears throat]
right?
which takes us into a realm that's
probably beyond our
um our time frame tonight.
Wow. Well, let's eat cuz we're going to
miss dinner and we got to we got to go
to your restaurant
and I'm getting hungry.
Yeah,
I've worked up an appetite.
Same, man. Yeah. Randall Carlson,
Jesse Michaels, [laughter]
this is the best opening of all time,
man. I It's an honor to speak with you.
I I I consider you a really good friend
at this point. We always have amazing
phone conversations.
We do. I think I consider you a good
friend as well.
Well, thanks, man. We need more people
like you in the world. Two years ago, I
went to Decatur, Atlanta, and we did an
interview. We did a sit down and I felt
like I was kind of low energy, and we
never put it out, but it was like this
amazing two-hour thing, and a lot of it
was around how the moon is possibly this
anomalous like alien spacecraft.
Well, now you're giving away secrets,
but it's okay. She's an insider. So we
were talking about how the moon might be
this anomalous you know object. The
conventional explanation for how it
formed that an asteroid hit the earth
and it formed this perfect you know
sphere. You never see the dark side sort
of just rotates around us. And then
there are all these sort of ancient
myths that involve a pre- moon period
right and the moon actually kind of
settled the tides or whatever pre
younger dus period. So I I and then you
found some really interesting anomalies
when it comes to the moon as well right?
Oh yeah. I don't necessarily think that
there is a record of humans witnessing a
time when there was no moon. Uh there
could have been a time that there was no
moon if we accept the capture theory
which was one of the three dominant
theories up until the impact theory
gained dominance. We had the the uh
capture theory, the sister theory and
the daughter theory. Those were the
three. Um all three of them have
problems but [clears throat] the capture
theory has the idea there is you know
you have to somehow it's coming from
somewhere else and it gets trapped into
this [clears throat] orbit around the
earth but the capture window is so small
you know it' be almost like we're trying
to shoot a dime that's a mile away with
a rifle something like that I mean it's
the capture window is extremely small
and it's because of the mathemat
mathematical pro problems that that
theory has not gained much credibility.
But what they did is they kind of
combined several theories that you had
in order to get the chemical ratios and
the isotopic ratios and uh the
differences between the moon and the
earth's composition and the similarities
that was essentially the problem. So you
had to con up concoct up this theory
that it was hit by a large object maybe
as big as Mars and that would have
caused this spewing out into space of
all of this debris and then eventually
this debris would have formed a ring
around the earth and then it would have
consolidated into the moon that we see
today. I have seen, and I'm certainly
not prepared to get into the
technicalities of it, but I've seen some
pretty exhaustive treatments of the
mathematics of just that. And it's
extremely challenging to get from a ring
of debris around the Earth to the moon
that we see today. Y
it's one thing to say, okay, here's a
big impact. Stuff gets thrown out, forms
a ring. Okay. But now to get to from
that ring to the moon that we have today
with all of its unique features that
gets problematic. So how do we explain
because it's amazing you know when you
look into your work and Robert Beval's
work Graham Hancock uh all these all
these people Robert Shock John Anthony
West it seems very apparent that you
have all this archaeology that's far
older than we date it to and that maybe
you know the uh the uh pyramids for
example are are much older than than we
think maybe you know the the um sphinx
at Giza actually there's lime gemstone
dam water damage on it. There's erosion
on it which would imply, you know, not
this like desert, you know, uh
temperature. Uh and so what do you think
about when they were built? Like is
there is there sort of a positive
version of that theory? Because I think
what I find frustrating is it's clear
the negative thing is clear. It's clear
that archaeology is wrong and that our
history is much older than meets the
eye. But can we actually date uh any of
these things? Obviously, you can't date
stone, but can we approximate when these
things were built and what society built
them?
Well, one thing you can do though with
stone is you can um use luminescence
dating, which I'm not going to try to
get into a technical explanation of how
that works. But basically, if you have a
piece of stone like let's say in in the
Sphinx, you've got this body of the
Sphinx and then you've got this it's
literally was a quarry around it, right?
Have you been there?
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So you know then that
the sphinx is actually the body of the
sphinx is below the grade of the of the
of the ground level. The head is above
but if you look at those walls right so
before those stones were quarried that
was all underground and it was it was
not um accessible by cosmic ray
bombardment. However, once you've
removed the rocks and exposed it to the
air, to the sun, to the air, to
whatever, now the cosmic ray bombardment
causes spalation, which creates
isotopes,
which then can be by counting the
isotopes, you can date it. And I'm not
going to try to explain it all without a
little bit of having pre prepared myself
for for it, but optically stimulated
luminescence, you can date how long a
stone has been exposed to the
environment.
That's interesting.
Yeah. So I I don't know why nobody has
really understand.
So have we dated any of these things?
Like for example,
not that I know of.
Well, why don't we do that? We we have
to figure that out if there is some sort
of method that allows us to date because
I think where you know and I love all
the people I just mentioned but like
where you can poke holes with Graham
Hancock is or or any of these people's
work is it's clear these things are
older but when can you date them to and
when exactly were they built and if he's
trying to win in his arguments against
um you know the Ministry of Culture and
and and [clears throat] Haz and stuff
then like it's very important that
uh you they have sort of smok and gun
proof and if you can get that smok and
gun proof it would be great.
Like let's take the snakes for example.
I I've [clears throat] been there. I've
seen it. I've studied rock weathering.
I've studied limestone weathering in the
field. I'm convinced that that it is
water erosion. Well then what you have
to do is turn to other fields of science
to determine when there would have been
enough water to do the erosion. The
erosion. See the Sphinx itself, the body
of the sphinx sphinx has been subjected
to these restoration campaigns. So now
there is, you know, are you looking at a
original piece of the Sphinx or are you
looking at a later part of a restoration
campaign? You you dispel all of that
when you're looking at the Sphinx ditch,
right? Because nobody's done a
restoration campaign um against that
west wall of the of the Sphinx ditch. So
what you've got there is pretty much the
pristine erosion that happened after
those blocks were removed, right? And
those blocks were removed using your I
imagine typical
um you know separation trenches, cutting
them loose, moving them out. And
typically if you look at a at a at a
quarry wall that has been even modern
that uses modern um technologies and ind
industrial processes to remove the
blocks you'll have this kind of stepped
profile. And there's a lot of old
kingdom
uh quaries limestone quaries along the
Nile that are supposedly about the same
age as the Sphinx.
But you can look at the walls of them
and you can literally pick out the the
chisel marks in the walls, the uh the
pick marks. And in the sphinx ditch, you
would assume that would be there, but
there are places where the where the
surface profile has been eroded back
over two feet. So you've had two feet of
limestone material removed. Now we go to
another scientific discipline and we can
dis we can look at climate change in
Egypt and we can tell for example not we
but the the scientists that have been
studying it can tell when there was like
lots of rainfall in Egypt. And there
was, this has been documented
independently by numerous researchers,
that there was copious rainfall during
the transition out of the ice age. And
freshwater uh muscles and other remnants
of of animals that live in the Nile have
been found 120 to 150 ft above the
present day flood plane of the Nile. So
what that means is is that that water if
it's 120 to 150 ft above the modern
flood plane would easily submerge the
Sphinx underwater.
Now secondly if you go to the east back
up go to the west you're looking at an
UPS slope gradient there's evidence of
massive hydraulic movements of water
across that which would have also
submerged the Giza plateau. Now the
dating of when that occurred is usually
given as around 12,000 years. Mhm.
So I was already aware of that dating
when I first encountered the work of
John Anthony West,
the late John Anthony West who who was
basing his work upon an insight that he
got from Schwaller Dubich who first
proposed that the Sphinx was water
eroded eroded and therefore had to be
much older than Old Kingdom Egypt
because it's been desert there since Old
Kingdom Egypt. And so what I did is I
undertook studies of limestone erosion
under all kinds of different
environmental and energetic
circumstances to to try to determine a
various scenarios of how you you know
the erosion of the sphinx and the the
ditch the quarry. I primarily focused on
the quarry walls rather than the ditch
itself for the reasons I explained ear
just a minute ago. And what I
[clears throat] came up with was pretty
amazing because um foram um gravestones
have been those are really useful for uh
determining erosion rates of different
kinds of rock. There are many many
gravestones that were like see the thing
is is when you put that gravestone into
the ground and it's the date of the
person that died well that's the date at
which that gravestone was now. So, if
you had it 1850, somebody who died, I I
live next to a cemetery where that has
pre-Ivil War dates in it. And you can
look at some of those gravestones and
they're very eroded. Some of them you
can't even read the inscriptions on them
anymore. But, so the idea is that if you
have a gravestone, you put it in the
ground, that date of death on that
gravestone is going to be pretty much
the date that that gravestone was now
set out there and exposed. So you okay
well if this was 18 1850
or 1870 or whatever you now can know how
long this has been sitting in the
environment subjected to the rain and
the wind and the weathering. So that's
one way you study. The other way is
there's there have been like on
limestone cliffs that are next to a
highly energetic um intertital zone
where the surf like you see out there is
washing up against the against the
cliff. Okay. So, let's say that. So,
here's what what some researchers have
done. They've come in, they've drilled a
hole into the side of the cliff, and
they've inserted a a a metal tenon into
that hole, measured very very carefully
how much of that tenon uh is exposed out
of the limestone cliff, and then have
come back 10, 20, 30 years later. and to
see how much that the cliff face has has
recessed backwards and they can now get
a a recessional rate uh an erosional
rate. Um
another thing study that was done is
like they they took a one cube of
freshly cut limestone and they put it on
the roof of the Smithsonian Institution
and then began to monitor its erosion
over many decades. So now you've got a
perfectly cut cube with square corners.
Right? Now you come back in 10 years,
what are you going to notice? Well,
first thing you're going to notice is
that the sharp corners are becoming
rounded off. Right? That's the first
thing that starts going. They become
more and more round and you can now
estimate how much material has been
removed in that particular environment.
So now a in the surf with you've got
this say I I remember one study what it
was was it was sort of a collapse of
rock into the into the ocean and it
exposed this freshly cut vertical rock
face. So they came in there and they
drilled that hole. They put the metal
tenon and they started monitoring over
literally over decades and was
determining okay here comes the rushing
surf pounding against it. How quickly
does that limestone erode back? Then
another study was
All right, I think we're good. I mean,
Randall, I I don't think anybody was
expecting that level of thoroughess to
my answer. I'm a I almost wanted to keep
let you keep going because you listed
five studies about water damage on
limestone. And I'm I'm incredibly
impressed. Can I just name one other
piece of evidence? Yeah. If you look
astronomically, you have the vernal
equinox, Leo at the time, the body of
the sphinx is a lion. Yes. And it seems
like it was sort of retrofitted with
this feronic headdress. Yes.
And you have the book [snorts] Hamlet's
Mill which talk about a lot of kind of
ancient architecture aligning up kind of
astronomically in these really amazing
ways. And uh this is just probably
another example, right?
Yeah. Because I think you can go back.
Well, I think didn't BVAL and and
Hancock do sort of a dating based upon
the fact of when the vernal equinox
sunrise would have been when the Sphinx
would have been looking directly at
that.
I think it would have been around that
time. Yeah, because around I think
12,000 BC or000 BC,
right? When it was
I think it was 10,500 BC specifically
when the procession shifted. It's a
26,000 cycle and true north changes
because the earth, you know, right
orbits on a wobble and Yeah.
And so the vernal equinox is now moving
out of uh Virgo
into Leo.
Yes.
So now you would have had the the Sphinx
and beyond the Sphinx you would have had
the profile of the lion. So when I speak
to Graham Hancock, he says, you know, I
don't think that a lot of this ancient
architecture, you know, for example, he
says that the the pyramid was not a tomb
and that this idea that it just
enshrined, you know, this death chamber
for the king and the queen and you have
the king's shaft and the queen shaft is
is he doesn't believe that. He thinks
that it's almost this uh portal to
another world. And it's it's
interesting, right, that the the king's
shaft uh lines up with Osiris, the
queen's shaft lines up with Sirius, I
believe. And uh and then you have this
just overall mapping to Orion's belt at
the time. And then you have a lot of
other astronomical alignment when it
comes to architecture across the ancient
world, whether it be, you know, the
Aztecs or certain architecture we found
in in Cambodia. Um, so what do you think
these and they include a lot of the same
symbology, uh, geometric patterns and
just building techniques, it seems. What
do you think the pyramids, just as an
example, were actually built for? What
do you think their purpose was? You have
the Christopher Dunn theory, you know,
he went on Joe Rogan saying it was like
this, you know, power generator. You
know, you have all sorts of theories.
You know, is it this portal to the
afterlife? What do you believe?
Well, I don't have any really um final
beliefs on it. I'm still learning. You
know, when I had uh we had a like a two
and a half, three hour coaching session
with Bob Greener yesterday
and we got into that and I've got notes
and I we I've got a recording of it and
he's going to give me his slides. He's
got a whole theory on it which I could
not at this moment recapitulate.
But next time we talk I will have
digested it. I will have followed up the
various leads. I've got a list of papers
to read. Um I do think I do think that
it had something to do with the uh
generation of some kind of energy. And
if I had to pick an energy I would say
plasma energy.
Why are you and Graham Hancock both so
high conviction in the impact
hypothesis? This idea that a comet from
the Torid meteor stream maybe there was
some sort of air burst event and uh it
wiped out civilization on earth. There
are other theories that the
magneettosphere of the earth weakened.
There was you know maybe heightened
solar activity. There was some sort of
you know solar flare or you know maybe a
calamitous volcano. There are various
theories. What gives you conviction in
the air burst hypothes? [snorts]
First of all, the proxy evidence is now
overwhelming.
You know, it was the idea was proposed.
I proposed I have it on record. I gave
re five lectures at Warren Wilson
College in 1995. I believe it was
[clears throat] where I basically talked
about the younger dus, the mass
extinctions, the rapid climate change.
And I say in my mind the most likely
trigger has got to be impacts of
something from space. And I proposed a
possible multiple impacts over the great
ice sheets as being the trigger. Well,
then in 2007, Richard Firestone and
Allan West and a number of others came
out with a paper. George Howard came out
with a paper proposing exactly that. Um
they didn't propose that it was the
torid or connected with the torids. That
came a little bit later. I think it was
from Bill Napier over in uh the
astrophysical observatory in England who
first proposed it could have been the um
the uh the torids. But there is a
mountain of evidence now in terms of
proxies. By proxies we mean um aridium
spike, there's a platinum spri uh spike.
Uh there have been nano diamonds found.
Uh copious nano diamonds,
microsphererals that would have taken
between 2 and 3,000 degrees centigrade
to to create um magnetic grains.
multiple proxies of the that are
associated with these high energy hyper
velocity impact events. That's what's
pretty much convinced me because you now
have like eight or 10 independent teams
that have documented
cosmic signatures at the lower younger
dus boundary.
Um now I think that there's an abundance
of
what would an example of a cosmic
signature be? Oh, well, a cosmic
signature would be um you you you
excavate a core ice core from Greenland
and then you discover that there is a
12,900year
layer of glacial ice that has a spike of
aridium in it hundreds of times greater
than the background.
Knowing that aridium is deposited on
Earth by hypervelocity impacts that
would be an example. Another example
would be finding nanodiamond layers. Um
the black matte layer, which I've
visited about three or four um quaries
now where you can see the black matte
layer exposed. And in that black matte
layer, you've got typically at the
bottom of it, you've got abundant nano
diamonds. And these nanodiamonds can
only form under extreme uh regimes of of
pressure and heat. And they're being
found all over the world now.
Wow.
Even in Antarctica.
Pretty incredible. Okay. This is going
to be a Well, you were you going to say
something?
Well, yeah. So, there's there's multiple
proxies. The the other thing I would say
is that there are studies that show that
would suggest that episodes of intense
vulcanism can be triggered by
hypervelocity impacts that mass
extinctions could be triggered by high
velocity hypervelocity impacts. that
extreme climate changes as like from a
relatively temperate climate into a
what's almost referred to as a cosmic
winter could also be produced by
hypervelocity impacts massive
earthquakes. Now, we know that there
were and I if we were looking at slides,
I could pull up a slide and I could show
you here are extreme flood events that
occurred during the catastrophic melting
of the great glacial ice sheets. And
sandwiched in those layers is thick
deposits of volcanic ash.
Wow.
Which shows us that during that process
of deglaciation, there were massive
volcanic eruptions going off around the
world. There's evidence of seismic
earthquakes that might have been like 10
on the RTOR scale. As a result of this
rapid unloading because of the the rapid
melting of the ice sheet, you've now got
trillions of tons of weight suddenly
removed from the Earth's crust. You have
this rebound that causes a
redistribution of the the the magma
reservoirs below the crust and that can
lead to seismic events, earthquakes and
so on. So we have earthquakes associated
with deglaciation. We have volcanoes
associated with hypervelocity impacts. I
think that for the explanation of how do
we when you when the planet is in the
full depths of a glacial age, you're
talking about five or six or seven
million cubic miles of the ocean
extracted out, deposited on the land
over a period of maybe 10,000 years. And
now it builds up. It's a mile and a half
thick. Now, imagine if we were suddenly
transported back 14,000 years ago.
Yeah.
That beach wouldn't be there. It'd be
another 40 or 50 miles to the east. And
you'd be sitting right there in forests.
The same kind of forests that you now
find up in Canada.
Wow.
Right there. This there no beach there.
You got to go
Miami. Miami Beach would look a lot
different.
It would look a lot different.
Yeah.
Well, that's amazing. And so volcanic
activity, seismic activity, ice core
sampling, all of these pieces of
artifacts of evidence would not be
explained by any of the other things.
So, you know, a lot of sun activs
issue. I disagree that he's I think he's
too dismissive of impacts, although I
think he's hedging a little bit, but um
I do believe the sun had a major role
and there's
What was the sun's role? Well, the sun's
role is that we probably had these
tremendous solar storms.
Do you know Matt Lacroy by any chance?
Yeah, I know Matt.
So, I just interviewed him and he said
something very crazy that honestly I
have trouble believing. He said that in
the '9s through the Pioneer mission that
NASA did. It was, you know, this first
deep space envoy. um they were looking
at these sort of uh orbital anomalies of
Neptune and Jupiter
and they thought that given these
orbital anomalies, they detected this
the presence of this 10th planet that
was far way far out like beyond the
Kyber belt and and and and beyond Pluto.
And um I I found that hard to believe,
but he was like, "No, they found it."
And then the crazier thing is he said
they covered up the presence of this
tenth planet because this planet was
four to five times larger than the
Earth. And it to me I mean it just if
this stuff ex if this planet exists it
would make sense that it would be
outside of the gravitational sphere of
influence of the sun right if it's that
big. and he was saying that the only
thing that made this planet make sense
from a gravitational perspective is that
we're in a binary star system and
there's actually a dead star in our star
system that this I know it sounds crazy
but it sort of dances around the sun and
it creates these cyclical uh coronal
mass ejections because when you get that
sort of gravitational force you know
coming towards the sun that creates this
you know CME event the whole thing
seemed beyond belief to me, but I wanted
to see if
I don't have any opinion on that. I
would first thing I'd say is, Matt, I I
got to look at your sources.
[laughter]
Yeah, it was like, you know, a couple of
um, you know, decently wellestablished
astronomical publications and then, you
know, these Caltech professors who seem
like they had credentials, but
I don't know. There there there have
been wobbles detected in the outer
planets
and some of the speculation around those
wobbles is some kind of a gravitational
perturbation by some hypothetical
larger object that we have not actually
discovered um other than indirectly
through these grav gravitational
perturbations. So that's been around
that idea has been around quite a while.
I don't know if that's what he's
referring to or if he's seen some data
that I haven't seen. That my first thing
I would say I got to go to the sources
when I hear these things. I want to know
the sources. Are they are they
rigorously and robustly established or
is it more speculative? Um and I don't
know I don't have an opinion on that.
How do you explain this is a huge
nonsequittor but how do you explain the
modern kind of alien or UFO phenomena
and your sort of ancient civilization
framework? Do you think that these are
vestigages of a lost uh civilization and
maybe remnant survivors of that
civilization?
Well, we've talked about that and I
think that that should be one hypothesis
that is investigated
uh rigorously. Um I mean I I I've
immersed myself in mythology for decades
and like today I was giving in the in
the um presentation I did at at
Apocalypse uh uh Hereticon Hereticon.
Thank you.
Was that behind the flood myths from all
over the world there have been really
there have been real floods that were
really big really huge could be
described as biblical in scale. Okay. So
if we take and go, okay, there was this
they're universal myths about these
gigantic world destroying floods and now
science demonstrates to us that those
were real.
Then in my mind, oh that's pretty
awesome. So we have evidence now that
one of the very most potent and
universal of all myths the the great
flood myths were
had their origin in real phenomena.
What about some of the others like the
stories the if you look at what other
stories from around the world are as
ubiquitous as the flood stories? Well,
that would be the stories and the
beliefs in gods, right? And the gods are
usually sky gods.
And I think that we could look at in
some cases, I think we could be
transferring
activity in the heavens and
anthropomorphi. Anthroor
anthropomorphizing,
thank you. anthropomorphizing
these events in the sky, which could be
or the inverse or we're painting the
past over with our modern kind of
materialist epistemological brush and
maybe like a bull did come down and have
sex with a waterfall and create a titan.
You know what I mean? Like these weird
like myths like maybe they literally saw
these things with their eyes and that
was just consensus reality at that time.
Well, I do think they literally saw
like they would explain like, you know,
storms and they would call, you know,
they explain like waves and it was
Jupiter or whatever. We we we
rationalize now.
Sure. And I do think that they saw
things and experienced things. And
particularly like if we go back to, you
know, let's say we go back 5,000 to
8,000 years ago when we know that the
Torid meteor stream was a whole lot more
active than now and that people would
have witnessed on a regular basis these
phenomena in the sky. I'll mention and
you know well about the the the 1908
Tangus event, right? Of course.
Okay. So well one of the things that one
of the lessons we learned from that is
the local people the Tangusi people they
interpreted it as as in the framework of
their religious beliefs. So they
believed that the event was caused by
their god of fire [snorts] agi coming
down from heaven to punish them. M
so now
unless they lose that mythical
connection because they'd be all become
college educated or something what would
happen is that this would be a a story
that would be perpetuated you know in a
thousand years 2,000 years from now they
would be talking about when the god Agni
came to earth and set the earth on fire
and you know did all this damage and so
forth well I think behind a lot of the
things that have come down to us, myths,
we could find that same kind of a
phenomena going on that you would have
um cosmic events that are so
overwhelming in their magnitude that it
spawns a religious response in people.
Do I think that that's the full
explanation for the idea of gods?
No, I don't.
Yeah. And I think that there that that
there might be a confusion between these
things because for one thing let's get
back to this point that you know from
the scientific enlightenment to now is
scarcely over 300 400 years right I mean
we're in the the space age now we're in
the age of computers now we're in the
age of of artificial intelligence all
within a few hundred years right so now
let's assume assume that we're talking
about two 300 years
of of scientific development and we're
looking at a span of time going back
200,000 years.
Yeah.
How how easily could a thousand or a few
thousand or five or even 10,000 years of
cultural development, scientific
development, whatever you want to think
of it, how easily could that be lost
for sure
in the noise of 200,000 years.
Yeah. Nobody explains why like human
homo sapiens have been roughly
physiologically or biologically the same
for the last 200,000 or 300,000 years.
the idea that just at the very you know
the tail end 3 to 5% of that time we get
culture we get technology we get all but
we were just completely primitive during
the entire you know rest of it
I think that actually requires a greater
leap in logic than the inverse than say
we actually had it and like you have
these kind of Ray Kerszswe style like
graphs where it's just like exponential
technology or whatever but it's total
hubris like that you know we maybe we
just don't the the field of archaeology
is 200 years old, right? It's like so
it's like we we found the ancient cities
of, you know, Babylonia and Assyria or
whatever in the early 1800s. And it's
almost like a a law, a predictable law
in archaeology that the deeper we go,
the older stuff gets.
And so, you know, it's almost like your
base guess should be that human
civilization is actually much older
than, you know, we would ever expect.
So, I I completely um agree with you.
The the question I have for you is like
you're familiar with Eric Mondanakin, of
course, Chariots of the Gods. So, like
you read that book, you read Zachariah
Sitchin, you know, all this stuff
around, you know, aliens coming down and
like seeding culture and like it feels
like they are um crossing their tees or
dotting the eyes when the dot doesn't
exist and the, you know, the cross
doesn't exist. Like they're they're
finishing a sentence that is incomplete.
And so, it's always tough. Like I think
the the difference between kind of a hu
and like a genius is like this error
correction at the you filling in the
gaps with like BS, right? Yeah. And and
sometimes that happens,
but it does feel like there's like a
decent amount of evidence for star
people or people from some other planet
or like an advanced civilization
transferring a lot of our modern wisdom
and technology.
I think and I think that's a hypothesis
that definitely should be explored. Mhm.
I have suggested that we also consider
the idea that at least one dimension of
it or one facet of it and that explains
the whole phenomena because there's some
wild stuff going on there when you start
looking at the uh the record of of
sightings and experiences of people
who've witnessed uh these kinds of
phenomena. But one is that we should
consider the fact that you know we
ourselves our ancestors if they were
technologically advanced enough could
have left the planet. And there is some
very interesting stories about again I
mean we could pull some of this up but
we chose not to do that this time.
Some of the stories like for example the
the world tree where the great
catastrophe comes and human humanity
climbs the world tree and like after the
floodwaters have receded some of them
climb back down to the earth to
repopulate the earth but some of the
other ones keep climbing into the higher
branches that leads to the heavens. I
mean that's like a story that's a common
motif that we run into. So, what if
there was a literal
truth of some kind behind these stories
like that? What if they're actually
telling us, well, yeah, there were some
people who somehow were able to leave
the PL because if you knew if if if you
knew the scale and extent of the younger
dus events and we knew if we knew that
something like that was going to happen
again, I can guarantee you there would
be a scientific consensus that well, if
we want to preserve the species, we want
to preserve civilization, we want to,
you preserve our knowledge, our science,
our industry, our art, all of that. When
we don't know how extreme this is going
to be, but we can speculate that it
could be very extreme. We probably need
to come up with some kind of a way of
having a um a place of refuge.
Where would that be?
Well, the most obvious one would be the
moon.
Do you think that um ancient religions
like the esoteric versions of them
actually kind of comport and go
together? Like I think of um you know in
meaba the Jewish you know coalistic
tradition you have like the seven heckal
like the
you know and then this there's seven
arit you know in uh in the Egyptian
tradition and then you have the ziggurat
and in Sumeriia has se seven steps. Do
you think a lot of these ancient
traditions actually point towards these
sort of celestial ascent practices that
are there's actually somewhat consistent
and go move across history?
Sure. I mean, there's got to be an
explanation for why universally,
you know, humans were so interested in
the sky, what went on in the sky,
created these monuments
to the sky. Um I sure I I think that
there probably was a reason and and it
could be let's say commemorating the
knowledge that there was once a science
of celestial travel
was still in in existence but the actual
knowhow to do it had been lost.
Do you know the the Air Force funded the
movie Stargate where there's like a
portal by the pyramid? even though they
funded it. But
yeah, I always found that interesting.
You'll have to excuse me. I might be
reaching the end of my tether.
No, no, this is great. I appreciate your
time, Randall. And
I'm having a good time, but yeah, I'm
I'm
You got to go create a thunderstorm.
[laughter]
We'll see what happens there. Yes.
Yeah. So,
well, I hope you come.
But we can certainly do this again. And
next time if you'd like, we could do
give me a little advanced notice and
I'll do some preparation. We can we can
sit here and we can look at some slides
and things and talk about what we're
looking at.
That sounds good to me.
Doesn't that sound fun?
Yeah. Thanks, man.
Okay. Appreciate you,
Jesse. It's always fun.